 
Page 1 of 86 
BUDGET 2024 SPEECH 
 
BUILDING OUR SHARED FUTURE TOGETHER 
 
A. Introduction ................................ ................................ .............. 3 
B. Tackling Immediate Challenges ................................ .................. 9 
C. Pursuing Better Growth and Jobs ................................ ............ 15 
Anchoring Quality Investments ................................ ................................ ..... 16 
Building on Our Strengths ................................ ................................ ............. 18 
Developing Our Local Enterprises ................................ ................................ . 22 
D. Equipping Our Workers for Life ................................ ................ 27 
Strengthening SkillsFuture ................................ ................................ ............ 28 
Supporting the Involuntarily Unemployed ................................ .................... 32 
E. Creating More Paths Towards Equality and Mobility ................ 35 
Reducing Wage Gaps ................................ ................................ .................... 35 
Advancing Social Mobility ................................ ................................ ............. 40 
F. Providing More Assurance for Families and Seniors ................. 43 
Supporting Families through Every Stage ................................ ...................... 43 
Strengthening Retirement Adequacy ................................ ............................  47 

 
Page 2 of 86 
Keeping Healthcare Affordable and Accessible for All ................................ ... 52 
G. Forging a Stronger and More United Nation ............................ 58 
A Safe and Secure Singapore ................................ ................................ ......... 58 
Safeguarding Energy Security Amidst the Energy Transition ..........................  60 
Building a United Nation ................................ ................................ ............... 63 
H. Securing Our Fiscal Position................................ ..................... 70 
Tax Changes ................................ ................................ ................................ .. 70 
BEPS 2.0 ................................ ................................ ................................ ........ 74 
Medium-Term Outlook ................................ ................................ ................. 78 
FY2023 and FY2024 Fiscal Position ................................ ................................  80 
I. Conclusion ................................ ................................ .............. 82 
 
  

 
Page 3 of 86 
A. Introduction 
 
Mr Speaker, Sir  
 
1. I beg to move that Parliament approve the financial policy of 
the Government for the financial year 1 April 2024 to 31 March 2025. 
 
2. Sir, the past year has not been easy.  
 
a. The international environment was troubled.  
 
b. The global economy was subdued.  
 
c. Our own economy grew by a modest 1.1%, avoiding a 
recession.  
 
3. I know that many households are feeling the pressure of higher 
living costs. 
 
a. Fortunately, we had some unexpected revenue upside 
from our strong economic rebound in the preceding two 
years.  
 

 
Page 4 of 86 
b. And this is why the Government was able to enhance its 
assistance measures to relieve the burden on households.  
 
4. For 2024, the outlook is mixed.  
 
a. Growth in the major economies on the whole is expected 
to remain resilient.  
 
b. But geopolitical risks continue to loom large. 
 
c. Wars are raging in Europe and the Middle East. 
 
d. These conflicts can escalate dangerously, leading to 
disruptions in global energy markets and supply chains.  
 
5. Fortunately, there are some upsides.  
 
a. Global inflationary pressures are expected to recede 
further. This may provide room for the major central 
banks to adopt more accommodative stances, which can 
help to ease financial conditions and support demand.  
 

 
Page 5 of 86 
b. The global electronics industry is expected to recover. This 
will bolster the growth of many regional economies, 
including our key trading partners.  
 
c. Meanwhile, Asia continues to be a key driver of global 
growth, with a wider spread of opportunities across the 
region – not just in China, but also in India and many parts 
of Southeast Asia.  
 
6. Overall, we are cautiously optimistic that 2024 will be a better 
year. Besides lower inflation, we expect higher GDP growth at 1.0% to 
3.0%.  
 
7. But there is considerable uncertainty in the outlook and the 
risks are tilted to the downside. 
 
a. The international environment has darkened dramatically.  
 
b. The post-Cold War era that began in the early 90s and 
fostered three decades of peace and stability is over.  
 
c. We are now in a new era of conflict and confrontation, 
and there is no turning back.  
 

 
Page 6 of 86 
d. What can we expect in this new world? 
 
e. It will be more violent. We already see a growing zone of 
impunity involving armed conflict and terrorism that 
cannot be easily resolved by the global community.  
 
f. It will be more fragmented. Because the major powers are 
prioritising national security over economic 
interdependence, and the traditional modes of 
cooperation are breaking down.  
 
g. It will be messier and more unpredictable. Because there 
will be diminished willingness and capacity to tackle 
global issues, be it responding to future pandemics or 
tackling climate change.  
 
8. These are the stark realities before us. For some time to come, 
Singapore will have to operate in an external environment that will 
be less stable and favourable to our security and prosperity than the 
preceding three decades.  
 
9. That is why we embarked on the Forward Singapore exercise – 
to refresh our social compact to keep our society strong and united, 

 
Page 7 of 86 
and to set out a roadmap for our way forward in this very troubled 
world.  
 
a. Through Forward Singapore, we aim to give more 
assurance to help Singaporeans navigate the uncertainties 
in today’s world; strengthen our sense of cohesion and 
solidarity; and keep our society together.  
 
b. For as one united people, we can overcome all odds. 
 
c. We can turn every challenge into opportunity, and every 
vulnerability into strength. 
 
d. We can build a nation that is vibrant and inclusive, fair and 
thriving, resilient and united. 
 
10. We have an ambitious agenda to achieve these shared goals.  
 
a. We have major plans to unfold over the coming years. 
 
b. Some are ready to be implemented now.  
 
c. Others will require more time to study or to work out the 
implementation details.  

 
Page 8 of 86 
 
d. In this Budget, we will roll out the first instalment of our 
Forward Singapore programmes.  
 
11. Budget 2024 is therefore about taking concrete steps to build 
our shared future together. We will:  
 
a. Tackle immediate challenges for households and 
businesses;  
 
b. Pursue better jobs, better growth, and equip our workers 
for life; 
 
c. Create more paths for equality and mobility;  
 
d. Provide more assurance for families and seniors;  
 
e. And ultimately forge a stronger and more united nation.  
  
12. And I will touch on each of these in turn in the rest of my 
speech. 
  

 
Page 9 of 86 
B. Tackling Immediate Challenges 
 
13. Sir, we have enjoyed low inflation in Singapore for more than a 
decade. But inflation rose sharply in 2022, following the outbreak of 
the war in Ukraine, which led to significant increases in global energy 
and food prices.  
 
14. Despite the unprecedented surge in prices, we had good 
economic growth in 2022. So incomes that year rose faster than 
inflation and Singaporeans were better off, in real terms.  
 
15. Unfortunately, this did not happen last year. Inflation had in fact 
started to moderate. But economic growth also slowed. As a result, 
real incomes declined.  
 
16. We had picked up early indicators of this negative trend. And 
that is why I introduced the Cost-of-Living Support Package in 
September last year, and enhanced the Assurance Package to over 
$10 billion.  
 
17. While we expect the situation to improve this year, there are 
uncertainties in the outlook as I mentioned just now. So in this 
Budget, I will do more to support households and further enhance 
the Assurance Package. 

 
Page 10 of 86 
 
a. First, I will provide an additional $600 in CDC Vouchers 
for all Singaporean households. The first $300 will be 
disbursed in end-June this year. The remaining $300 will 
be disbursed in January next year.  
 
b. Second, I will provide a Cost-of-Living Special Payment of 
between $200 and $400 in cash. This will be extended to 
adult Singaporeans with Assessable Income of up to 
$100,000, and who do not own more than one property.  
 
c. Third, I will provide additional one-off U-Save rebates to 
help households cope with increases in their utility bills. 
In total, eligible HDB households can expect to receive 
two-and-a-half times the amount of regular U-Save 
rebates, or up to $950, in FY2024. This will cover about 
four months of utility bills for those living in 3- and 4- 
room flats.  
 
d. Fourth, I will provide an additional one-off Service and 
Conservancy Charges (or S&CC) Rebate for HDB flats. 
Together with the regular S&CC rebates, eligible HDB 
households will receive up to four months of such rebates 
in FY2024.  

 
Page 11 of 86 
 
e. Altogether, the additional support under the Assurance 
Package will cost $1.9 billion. (See Annex B-1 for details of 
the enhanced Assurance Package.)  
 
18. We have designed this Package so that lower-income families 
get more support. We have also ensured that larger households, 
particularly those with seniors and children, get more support.  
 
19. Let me give some illustrations:  
 
a. A lower-income household of four, with two young 
children, will receive about $5,500 in benefits in FY2024. 
This comprises cash, MediSave top-ups, U-Save and S&CC 
rebates, and CDC Vouchers.  
 
b. A middle-income household of four, with two young 
children, will receive about $3,000 in benefits. 
 
c. A middle-income household with six persons – a larger 
family – including two seniors and two young children, will 
receive about $8,000 in benefits.  
 

 
Page 12 of 86 
20. Sir, these are concrete ways to help Singaporeans tackle cost-of-
living pressures. Let me assure everyone: we will always have your 
backs. 
 
21. Beyond the Assurance Package, I will top up the GST Voucher 
Fund by $6 billion. This delivers on our commitment to permanently 
defray GST expenses for lower- and middle-income households, 
through the GST Voucher scheme.  
 
22. Businesses also need help to manage rising costs. Many 
companies have seen increases in their wage bills, rental, and 
utilities, amongst others. I will therefore introduce an Enterprise 
Support Package, which will provide $1.3 billion in support to 
companies.  
 
a. First, companies will receive a 50% Corporate Income Tax 
Rebate, capped at $40,000, in the Year of Assessment 
2024. Not all companies are profitable, and some may not 
benefit from such a rebate. So I will provide a minimum 
benefit of $2,000 in cash payouts for companies that 
employed at least one local employee in 2023.  
 
b. Second, I will enhance the Enterprise Financing Scheme, 
which helps Singapore enterprises with their financing 

 
Page 13 of 86 
needs. The maximum working capital loan quantum will 
be permanently raised to $500,000. I will also extend until 
31 March 2025 the enhanced maximum trade loan 
quantum, as well as the Government’s risk sharing of 
project loans to support domestic construction projects. 
 
c. Third, I will extend the SkillsFuture Enterprise Credit by a 
year to 30 June 2025. The Credit provides additional 
support for eligible employers to cover their out-of-pocket 
expenses when they embark on workforce and business 
transformation. With this extension, employers will have 
another year to claim any unused credit.  
 
d. The measures in this Enterprise Support Package are tilted 
towards firms that make the effort to restructure and 
transform. I encourage all firms to make full use of these 
schemes, so that they can thrive and succeed, amidst a 
more challenging operating environment. (See Annex B-2 
for details of Enterprise Support Package.) 
 
23. The enhanced Assurance Package and the Enterprise Support 
Package will provide some near-term relief to Singaporean 
households and firms. These are needed during this period when 
inflation, while moderating, remains on the high side. But they are 

 
Page 14 of 86 
not permanent solutions. In the longer term, the best way to deal 
with inflation is to ensure that our firms and workers are more 
productive, and that real incomes continue to rise sustainably.  

 
Page 15 of 86 
C. Pursuing Better Growth and Jobs 
 
24. Our key priority therefore is to ensure a strong, innovative, and 
vibrant economy. This is absolutely essential to secure good jobs and 
better lives for all Singaporeans, and on a sustained basis.  
 
25. Since our early days of independence, we have been able to 
defy the odds and consistently achieve good economic performance. 
But we cannot afford to be complacent, especially in a more complex 
and volatile external environment.  
 
26. In past years, some had suggested that Singapore should slow 
down; don’t have to grow so quickly. Indeed, this was what 
happened last year – our economy grew by just about 1%. But if we 
were to experience similarly slow growth for several years in a row, 
we will be in trouble. We will have no chance of improving our 
collective well-being. Singaporeans’ living standards will be dented. 
We will not be able to afford the social services we need. And in the 
end, lower-income workers and families will be hit the hardest.  
 
27. We therefore make no apology for pursuing growth. To be clear, 
we are not going for growth at all costs. There is a limit to how fast 
we can grow due to the tighter constraints we face in land, labour, 
and carbon. But by focusing on productivity and innovation, we can 

 
Page 16 of 86 
push the frontier and grow at an average of about 2% to 3% each 
year over the next decade. 
 
28. Now, this is an ambitious goal given our stage of economic 
development. But we must aim high, so that Singapore keeps moving 
forward, and our people continue to enjoy more opportunities and a 
better quality of life. 
 
Anchoring Quality Investments 
 
29. A crucial enabler for growth is our ability to attract high-quality 
and high-value investments to Singapore, because such projects bring 
the latest know-how and capabilities, and create good jobs for 
Singaporeans.  
 
30. So far, our investment pipeline has been healthy. Despite a 
challenging external environment last year, EDB exceeded its targets, 
and brought in investments which are expected to create over 20,000 
new jobs. 
 
31. But the competition for investments is getting tougher. 
 
a. Governments around the world are rolling out vast 
subsidies to attract investments, especially in strategic 

 
Page 17 of 86 
industries. For example, in November last year, Japan 
announced that it would allocate 2 trillion yen, or about 
$18 billion, to support its semiconductor industry.  
 
b. We cannot afford to engage in a “bidding war” with the 
major economies.  
 
c. But neither should we stand still and just do nothing. 
 
32. We will therefore enhance our investment promotion toolkit by 
introducing a new Refundable Investment Credit. (See Annex C-1.)  
 
a. This is a tax credit with a refundable cash feature. It will 
support high-value and substantive economic activities, 
including the setting up or expansion of manufacturing 
facilities; new innovation and R&D activities; as well as 
activities in support of the green transition.  
 
b. Essentially, this new tax credit will help us stay 
competitive and attract investments from global 
companies with the right know-how, and create good jobs 
for Singaporeans.  
 

 
Page 18 of 86 
33. To support this and other investment promotion efforts, I will 
top up the National Productivity Fund by $2 billion.  
 
Building on Our Strengths 
 
34. Besides anchoring new investments, we must build on our 
existing strengths, and upgrade the sectors where we have 
competitive advantages.  
 
35. These advantages did not come about by chance. They are the 
result of many decades of hard work to restructure and to upgrade 
our economy. We did not just keep costs competitive. We also 
enhanced our capabilities and moved up the value chain, so as to 
justify the higher premiums for operating out of Singapore. And we 
are pressing on with these restructuring efforts through the Industry 
Transformation Maps.  
 
36. Take semiconductors as one example. Singapore is not the 
cheapest location worldwide. But we have many things going for us – 
our excellent connectivity, our reliability and stable business 
environment, and also a critical mass of leading companies based 
here. And they operate across the value chain, from design, to wafer 
fabrication, to assembly and testing. The companies here do not 
produce cutting-edge 3 nm chips, which you will read about in the 

 
Page 19 of 86 
media these days. But they have carved out a niche in other types of 
chips, like specialty chips and NAND flash memory chips. These are 
critical enablers of automation, 5G, electric vehicles, and they are in 
high demand. And that is how this little red dot can be a key node in 
the semiconductor supply chain – we account on our own for more 
than 10% of the global semiconductor market, and 20% of 
semiconductor equipment in the world.  
 
37. Likewise in finance, we are a leading centre in Asia, supporting 
businesses from all over the world. During this period of global 
uncertainty, we have been able to distinguish ourselves as a stable 
and trusted financial centre. The major financial institutions are keen 
to do more out of Singapore, and we are seeing a continued inflow of 
investments, capital, and talent.  
 
38. So whether in advanced manufacturing or high-end services, 
the strengths we have today are not easily replicated by others. But 
the global competitive landscape is ever-changing and other 
countries, you can be sure, are seeking to overtake us. So in this 
Budget, I will set aside resources to reinforce our competitive lead. 
 
39. I will top up the Financial Sector Development Fund by $2 
billion. This will give MAS more resources to take full advantage of 
current opportunities, and extend our lead in the financial services 

 
Page 20 of 86 
sector – not just to do more in the core areas of banking, capital 
markets, asset management, and insurance, but also to build 
capabilities in new areas like FinTech, as well as green and transition 
finance.  
 
40. I will set aside more funds for R&D – Research and 
Development – because this is how we push the frontiers of 
innovation across the entire economy.  
 
a. In 2020, we launched the Research, Innovation and 
Enterprise 2025 (or RIE2025) plan, with a commitment of 
$25 billion.  
 
b. I will invest a further $3 billion in RIE2025.  
 
c. This will sustain our investments in research, innovation, 
and enterprise at about 1% of GDP . The additional 
resources will go towards research and related 
investments in national priorities such as advanced 
manufacturing, sustainability, the digital economy, and 
healthcare.  
 
d. Our investments in R&D will take some time to translate 
into concrete outcomes. But we must take a long-term 

 
Page 21 of 86 
view. For these investments help to develop a critical mass 
of capabilities, ideas, and talent. They enable us to 
sharpen our competitive edge globally, as a knowledge-
based and innovation-driven economy.  
 
41. Besides a steady commitment to R&D, we also need to harness 
the full power of technology across our key sectors.  
 
42. One critical emerging technology is Artificial Intelligence. AI is 
not just about ChatGPT or Large Language Models. It is a general-
purpose technology, like electricity, the internal combustion engine, 
the computer, or the internet. It has the potential to transform a 
wide range of industries, and to enhance productivity across many 
existing processes, from drug discovery, to organising warehouses, or 
driving vehicles.  
 
43. Singapore is already recognised as a serious player in AI 
development. We aim to go further – to build new peaks of 
excellence, and crowd in private sector investments. We have set out 
the plans to do so in the National AI Strategy 2.0. 
 
44.  To support this strategy and further catalyse AI activities, I will 
invest more than $1 billion over the next five years into AI compute, 
talent, and industry development.  

 
Page 22 of 86 
 
a. Part of the investment will be used to ensure that 
Singapore can secure access to the advanced chips that 
are so crucial to AI development and deployment.  
 
b. We will also work with leading companies in Singapore 
and around the world to set up their AI Centres of 
Excellence here. We want these Centres to spur industry 
collaboration and innovation, and drive greater value 
creation across the whole economy.  
 
45. In tandem, I will allocate additional resources to catalyse 
investments in upgrading our Nationwide Broadband Network. 
With the additional investments, we aim to enable mass market 
access to broadband speeds of up to 10 Gigabits per second in the 
second half of this decade. This is 10 times faster than the broadband 
speed in most homes today. This also ensures that our connectivity 
infrastructure will be able to support technologies like AI and 
immersive media, as they become more pervasive in the future.  
 
Developing Our Local Enterprises 
 
46. We will continue to do more to invest in and strengthen our 
local enterprises.  

 
Page 23 of 86 
 
a. We are helping smaller firms harness technology through 
pre-approved solutions, many tailored to the needs of 
specific industries. This enables the SMEs to “plug and 
play” and quickly achieve greater efficiencies and 
productivity gains.  
 
b. As companies grow, their needs will become more 
complex, especially as they go overseas. We are providing 
more customised support to help these companies scale 
up, and we will continue with these efforts.  
 
47. One way for our companies to level up quickly is to partner with 
the multinational enterprises (or the MNEs) that are based here. The 
MNEs set high requirements and standards for firms that wish to 
partner or supply to them. We cannot force MNEs to choose only 
local suppliers. But we can and we will help Singapore enterprises to 
meet the high standards, and to form win-win partnerships with 
MNEs.  
 
a. Let me share an example from the aerospace industry. 
Aerospace parts must meet stringent manufacturing and 
safety requirements. So aerospace manufacturers like 

 
Page 24 of 86 
Rolls-Royce are highly selective in who they choose as 
partners.  
 
b. Zincode, a local company, was supported by the Smart 
Manufacturing Joint Lab. This is a collaboration between 
A*STAR, Rolls-Royce, and Singapore Aero Engine Services 
Private Limited. The company was supported by the Lab 
to improve its image processing capabilities. As a result, it 
qualified as one of the approved partners for inspection 
work at the Rolls-Royce manufacturing facility here in 
Singapore. Zincode has now successfully captured new 
opportunities from other companies in the aerospace 
sector, and benefited from an increase in sales.  
 
48. We want to help more companies like Zincode raise their 
capabilities and win new opportunities. Today, we have the 
Partnerships for Capability Transformation (or PACT) scheme. This 
supports collaborations between larger companies and SMEs, in the 
areas of supplier development and co-innovation.  
 
a. I will enhance PACT to support partnerships in more areas 
– including capability training, internationalisation, and 
corporate venturing.  
 

 
Page 25 of 86 
b. With the enhanced PACT, we aim to help more of our local 
firms plug into global supply chains, compete in markets 
abroad, and grow to become industry leaders in their own 
right.  
 
49. For firms to be competitive, they also need to embrace 
sustainability. SMEs today sometimes still treat sustainability as an 
additional imposition and cost. But going green can be a competitive 
advantage. Because the MNEs are already looking to reduce their 
carbon footprint, and they expect their suppliers to do the same. In 
other words, to play in the MNE value chain, our own companies 
must be “sustainability-ready”.  
 
50. I will therefore extend the enhanced support for green loans 
under the Enterprise Financing Scheme, and expand its scope to 
help more of our SMEs adopt green solutions.  
 
51. I will also enhance the Energy Efficiency Grant. This was 
introduced in 2022 for companies in the Food Services, Food 
Manufacturing, and Retail sectors. I will extend the grant to more 
sectors including Manufacturing, Construction, Maritime, and Data 
Centres and their users. Beyond pre-approved energy-efficient 
solutions supported under the Grant, we will provide additional 

 
Page 26 of 86 
support for companies with more ambitious plans to reduce their 
emissions. (See Annex C-2.)  
 
52. The Minister for Trade and Industry will elaborate on this and 
other sustainability-related measures at the Committee of Supply.  
 
53. We are taking concrete steps to keep our economy competitive 
and vibrant, and to help our enterprises seize new opportunities. We 
will do whatever it takes to secure our place as one of the leading 
economic hubs in the world, known for our innovation, dynamism, 
and deep capabilities, with good jobs and opportunities for our 
people. 
 
  

 
Page 27 of 86 
D. Equipping Our Workers for Life 
 
54. Sir, people and talent are critical to our economic dynamism. 
We are investing heavily in our human capital, including in preschool 
and education. But learning cannot stop when formal schooling ends, 
and that is why we launched SkillsFuture – to systematically support 
Singaporeans in reskilling and upskilling, and to equip them 
throughout life.  
 
55. The Singapore workforce today ranks highly in terms of skills 
and technical proficiency. Our workers are able to command a 
premium in the global marketplace because of their expertise. But 
with rapid technological advances, expertise is in constant flux. Jobs 
like data entry clerks and door-to-door salesmen have dwindled in 
numbers. New jobs that did not exist decades ago, like data scientists 
and digital marketers are now in demand.  
 
56. Expertise keeps on changing. In other words, robots and 
machines will not completely replace humans at work. But they do 
change the way expertise is defined and how value is created. We 
therefore have to invest even more in our human capital, and help 
our workers refresh and update their skills, and learn how to harness 
new technologies more effectively. Indeed, this is something that 

 
Page 28 of 86 
NTUC and the Labour Movement have consistently championed, 
most recently in the Forward Singapore engagements.  
 
Strengthening SkillsFuture 
 
57. We started SkillsFuture nearly 10 years ago. Since then, 
Government spending on Continuing Education and Training has 
nearly doubled to $0.9 billion last year.  
 
58. Today, every Singaporean gets a $500 SkillsFuture Credit, and all 
employers get support to train their workers. We have also built up a 
wide array of training options, which individuals enjoy generous 
subsidies for.  
 
59. We have made good progress over the past decade. But there is 
still much more to be done. Continuous skills upgrading throughout 
life is now more than important than ever. So we must firmly 
establish SkillsFuture as a key pillar in our social compact. 
  
60. Quality learning and skills training is not just about attending a 
one- or two-day course. Workers may need weeks or even months of 
training to get a proper skills reboot, especially if they are looking to 
move to a different area of work. Even if they stay in the same 

 
Page 29 of 86 
industry, they will need a substantial injection of skills from time to 
time to stay relevant.  
 
61. But we know that taking time off from work to attend training 
courses over an extended period is not easy, especially for those in 
their 40s and 50s with financial and caregiving obligations. 
 
62. I will therefore introduce a new SkillsFuture Level-Up 
Programme to better support our mid-career workers. I will share the 
broad thrusts of this programme, and the Minister for Education will 
provide more details at the Committee of Supply. (See Annex D-1.)  
 
63. First, I will give all Singaporeans aged 40 and above a top-up in 
SkillsFuture Credit of $4,000.  
 
a. All Singaporeans aged 40 and above will get the top-up in 
May this year. For those who are younger, you do not have 
to worry. Your turn will come – you will get the top-up, 
when you turn 40.  
 
b. We have deliberately allowed the existing basic tier of 
$500 in SkillsFuture Credit to be used for a wide range of 
courses, and this was to instil a habit of lifelong learning.  
 

 
Page 30 of 86 
c. The new credit – this $4,000 credit – will be more targeted 
in scope. We will confine its usage to selected training 
programmes with better employability outcomes. This 
includes part-time and full-time diploma, post-diploma, 
undergraduate programmes, as well as courses for the 
Progressive Wage Model sectors. And that is because we 
want participants taking up these programmes to be 
assured of better employment outcomes after they have 
completed their training.  
 
64. Second, to provide more reskilling options, I will provide 
subsidies to all Singaporeans aged 40 and above to pursue another 
full-time diploma at our Polytechnics, ITE, and Arts Institutions from 
Academic Year 2025 onwards.  
 
65. In other words, we will give every Singaporean another bite of 
the education subsidy. Even after you have graduated from an 
Institute of Higher Learning as a younger person, you can come back 
again after you turn 40 to do a full-time diploma, and it will be at 
subsidised rates.  
 
66. Third, I will provide a monthly training allowance to 
Singaporeans aged 40 and above who enrol in selected full-time 
courses.  

 
Page 31 of 86 
 
a. This training allowance will be equivalent to 50% of one’s 
average income over the latest available 12-month period, 
and will be capped at $3,000 per month. Every individual 
can receive up to 24 months of such a training allowance 
throughout their lifetime.  
 
b. This will support the full duration of a SkillsFuture Career 
Transition Programme, and more than half the duration of 
most qualifications issued by our Institutes of Higher 
Learning.  
 
67. What do these changes mean for our workers?  
 
a. Take the example of Mr Calvin Li, 40 years old now; 
graduated from Singapore Polytechnic with a Diploma in 
Electronic, Computer and Communication Engineering.  
 
b. He works today as a Project Director at Khoon 
Engineering, a mechanical and electrical service provider. 
With the SkillsFuture Level-Up Programme, he will enjoy a 
$4,000 top-up in SkillsFuture Credit. 
 

 
Page 32 of 86 
c. He can use the Credit to pursue a second diploma. This 
diploma will be offered at subsidised fees, and the Credit 
will cover more than half of the expense after subsidies. 
 
d. Should he intend to do this full-time, he can receive the 
monthly training allowance of up to 50% of his previous 
pay for two years.  
 
68. Sir, we are making a significant enhancement to our SkillsFuture 
ecosystem. But we will reap the full benefits only if all of us – 
government, employers, workers, and unions – lean forward to truly 
deepen this culture of lifelong learning and skills mastery. This must 
be our shared commitment to one another – to help our fellow 
Singaporeans develop to their fullest potential, and to have 
productive and meaningful careers. 
 
Supporting the Involuntarily Unemployed  
 
69. There is one other move we will make under SkillsFuture. We 
know that technological changes will bring about more churn in the 
economy. Even when the economy as a whole is doing well, some 
businesses or even some industries may be suffering. In fact, it is not 
possible to have an economy that is dynamic and growing without 

 
Page 33 of 86 
failures and losses. In some sectors, firms will have to let go of 
people, while in other sectors, new and better jobs will be created. 
  
70. We have to accept this reality. But it doesn’t mean we should 
be indifferent to the suffering caused when firms lay off their 
workers. 
 
71. Losing a job is a major setback for workers and their families. 
Those who become involuntarily unemployed naturally feel the 
pressure to rush into the first available job they find. But the new job 
may not always be a good fit. Ideally, they should consider ways to 
upgrade their skills, and to find a job that fits their aptitude and 
talent. Displaced workers may not have the time to train or search for 
new jobs, especially when they are already straining to make ends 
meet. 
 
72. Therefore, we will do more to support this group of workers. In 
particular, we will introduce a temporary financial support scheme 
for the involuntarily unemployed, while they undergo training or look 
for better-fitting jobs.  
 
a. We have to design this scheme carefully, including the 
quantum of support and the conditionalities that come 
with the support. This is to avoid the pitfalls that other 

 
Page 34 of 86 
countries experienced when they introduced 
unemployment benefits.  
 
b. We are working out the parameters for the scheme, and 
we will provide more details later this year. 
 
73. Ours must always be an economy that provides opportunities 
for all; an economy that benefits the many rather than the few. This 
is why we are making significant enhancements to SkillsFuture, and 
supporting jobseekers while they search for their next opportunity. 
We believe that every worker matters; that every citizen counts. We 
will equip every Singaporean to benefit from the fruits of our 
economic growth. 
  

 
Page 35 of 86 
E. Creating More Paths Towards Equality and Mobility  
 
74. In many developed countries, rising inequality and slowing 
mobility have fractured cohesion, and deeply divided their peoples. 
These can create similar pressures here.  
 
75. Indeed, we embarked on the Forward Singapore exercise 
because we do not want to succumb to the kind of harsh inequality 
we see in so many parts of the world. By creating more paths 
towards equality and mobility, we also put ourselves in a better 
position for continued growth – in other words, a strong economy 
and a strong society reinforce each other.  
 
76. But tackling inequality is often easier said than done. Ideas on 
how to do so are frequently replete with unintended consequences. 
Simple handouts and blunt measures do not solve poverty. This is 
why Singapore has continually paved our own way since the 
beginning. We carefully study the experiences of others. We take 
note of where they have succeeded and failed. We introduce 
significant innovations that work for us, our ethos, our society. This is 
the Singapore way.  
 
Reducing Wage Gaps 
 

 
Page 36 of 86 
77. Over the last decade, we have made progress in uplifting lower-
wage workers, and reducing disparities in wages. Our income 
inequality, as measured by the Gini coefficient, has declined to its 
lowest level over two decades.  
 
78. Workfare and Progressive Wages are our key strategies to uplift 
our lower-wage workers. These strategies are working. I will make 
several adjustments to ensure they continue to deliver results. (See 
Annex E-1.) 
 
79. First, I will enhance the Workfare Income Supplement scheme 
from next year.  
 
a. I will raise the qualifying income cap from $2,500 to 
$3,000. This ensures that we continue to cover lower-
wage workers, even as their wages grow.  
 
b. I will also raise Workfare payouts. Lower-wage senior 
workers will qualify for a maximum annual payout of 
$4,900, from $4,200 today.  
 
80. Second, I will raise the Local Qualifying Salary (or the LQS). All 
local employees at companies that hire foreign workers must be paid 
at least the LQS. 

 
Page 37 of 86 
 
a. The LQS for full-time workers will be raised from $1,400 
to $1,600 from this year. The minimum hourly rate will be 
increased from $9 to $10.50 per hour. 
 
b. This increase ensures we keep pace with wage growth.  
 
81.  Third, I will provide more support for employers who raise the 
wages of their lower-wage workers.  
 
a. In 2022, I introduced the Progressive Wage Credit Scheme 
(or the PWCS), where the Government co-funds the wage 
increase of lower-wage workers with employers.  
 
b. I know employers are concerned with rising business costs 
in today’s economy. And so the Government will do its 
part to help. I will raise the co-funding levels for this year, 
from a maximum of 30%, to a maximum of 50%. 
 
c. I will also raise the PWCS wage ceiling from $2,500 to 
$3,000 in 2025, in tandem with the increase in the 
qualifying income cap for Workfare.  
 

 
Page 38 of 86 
d. And to provide for these enhancements, I will top up the 
PWCS Fund by $1 billion.  
 
82. Besides uplifting lower-wage workers, we also want to improve 
wages across different professions. There will always be differences in 
wages in any society. But too large a gap creates unhealthy levels of 
anxiety and stress. Parents and children may get caught up in an 
education arms race, or may feel pressured to prioritise careers only 
in a few traditional fields, instead of focusing on their individual 
strengths and talents.  
 
83. In fact, the vast majority of Singaporeans in the Forward 
Singapore engagements welcome broader definitions of success. We 
want more diverse pathways so that every individual can strive to be 
the best possible version of themselves. This also means we must 
accord greater value to those who are skilled in technical hands-on 
abilities, as well as those with the social and empathetic traits to 
excel in service jobs. In particular, the wages and career prospects of 
our ITE graduates should not be too far below their Polytechnic- and 
University-going peers.  
 
84. I recently met some recent ITE graduates. I was inspired by their 
personal stories, and their enthusiasm to deepen the skills they have 
acquired at ITE.  

 
Page 39 of 86 
 
85. One of them, Matthew Francis Thanarajoo, graduated from ITE 
in 2021 with a Higher Nitec in Mechatronics.  
 
a. He is now pursuing a Diploma in Mechatronics at Temasek 
Polytechnic, and honing his skills in automation and 
robotics.  
 
b. These experiences have equipped him with confidence to 
pursue his aspirations in engineering. He will be 
representing Singapore at the WorldSkills competition 
later this year in France, and we wish him the very best.  
  
86. We want to encourage and support more young ITE graduates 
in their upskilling efforts, so they can excel in a profession they have 
trained in, and get themselves onto a better career and wage 
trajectory. I will therefore provide more support for ITE graduates 
aged 30 and below through a new ITE Progression Award.  
 
87. There are two parts to the Award:  
 
a. First, I will provide a $5,000 top-up to the Post-Secondary 
Education Accounts of ITE graduates when they enrol in a 

 
Page 40 of 86 
diploma programme. This will help to offset the costs of 
obtaining a diploma. 
 
b. Second, when these students attain their diplomas, I will 
provide a further $10,000 top-up to their CPF Ordinary 
Accounts. This will give them a head-start in purchasing a 
home or saving for retirement.  
 
c. Sir, this new Award is a significant investment in our ITE 
graduates. It represents our continuing commitment to 
uplift them, and to better equip them in their journey of 
lifelong learning.  
 
Advancing Social Mobility  
 
88. Besides tackling inequality, we must also uphold social mobility. 
And up to now, Singapore has fared better than other advanced 
economies. But we must continue to pay special attention to children 
from less well-off families, to ensure they have access to full and fair 
opportunities early in life.  
 
89. Many of these families are already taking steps to build better 
lives for themselves, but they may find it hard to sustain progress. 

 
Page 41 of 86 
We know that they often face complex challenges, such as marital 
stress, existing debts, or even motivation or self-confidence issues.  
 
90. Under the enhanced ComLink (or ComLink+), we are providing 
more customised support for these families. We are getting family 
coaches and volunteer befrienders to work directly with these 
families. They will jointly develop action plans to improve their life 
circumstances, and the coaches will provide additional support to the 
families, so as to encourage and motivate them towards their goals.  
 
a. The additional support will be rolled out in the form of 
ComLink+ Progress Packages. And this is yet another 
major innovation in our social policy landscape. (See 
Annex E-2.) 
 
b. For example, adults in the family can each receive payouts 
of up to $600 every quarter, through a combination of 
cash and CPF, if they secure a job and stay employed.  
 
c. Those who make voluntary contributions to their CPF will 
receive matching grants from the Government to grow 
their savings faster. This, combined with existing schemes 
like the Fresh Start Housing Scheme, will help these 
families buy their own homes.  

 
Page 42 of 86 
 
d. We will also partner with corporates and community 
groups to implement the ComLink+ Progress Packages. 
The donors can provide additional financial support to 
these families, and contribute in other ways, like 
befriending and mentoring, to help them get back on their 
feet again.  
  
91. Sir, in this Budget, we are taking further steps to ensure that all 
Singaporeans have opportunities to take on work they find 
meaningful and fulfilling, build on their talents, give their best, and 
be rewarded fairly for it. This is how we keep the Singapore Dream 
alive and well for all our people.  
 
92. The Government will do our part. But I want to emphasise that 
it is not just about the Government doing more. We also need our 
employers, community groups, as well as families and individuals 
themselves, to step up. Together, we can and we will build – a fairer, 
a more equal, and a more inclusive Singapore.  
  

 
Page 43 of 86 
F. Providing More Assurance for Families and Seniors  
 
93. Next, let me touch on our plans to build a Singapore made for 
families – an endearing home for all of us to sink roots, grow up, and 
grow old in.  
 
Supporting Families through Every Stage 
 
94. Families are the bedrock of our society, and we will support 
their needs at every stage of life. 
 
95. Let me start with support for our children, to give them a strong 
foundation in life.  
 
96. We will continue to take steps to improve preschool 
affordability.  
 
a. At Government-supported preschools, we extend 
generous subsidies, so that out-of-pocket expenses are 
kept affordable.  
 
b. We will lower the fees further so that full-day preschool 
expenses for dual-income families will be comparable to 

 
Page 44 of 86 
those of primary school and after-school student care.  
 
c. We will do so in two stages. I will reduce monthly 
childcare fee caps in Government-supported preschools 
in 2025, to $640 for Anchor Operators and $680 for 
Partner Operators. This is before the childcare subsidies 
which all families benefit from. I will make another move 
to reduce fee caps in 2026, and the details will be 
announced later.  
 
d. I will also enhance existing preschool subsidies for lower-
income families. Currently, more subsidies are given to 
children with working mothers. I will extend these higher 
subsidies to all children from lower-income families, 
including those with non-working mothers. This will 
benefit up to 17,000 children.  
 
97. In schools, we will do more to help our children develop the 
competencies and values they need to thrive in a more unpredictable 
future.  
 
a. MOE is placing more emphasis on competencies like 
adaptive and inventive thinking, communication skills, and 
civic literacy. 

 
Page 45 of 86 
 
b. We want to encourage and recognise students who 
demonstrate such competencies, including by enhancing 
the Edusave awards.  
 
c. I will therefore top up the Edusave Endowment Fund by 
$2 billion to support these and other education initiatives.  
 
98.  For young couples who are getting ready to settle down and 
form their own families, timely access to affordable housing is critical.  
 
a. We are helping first-timer families by ramping up BTO 
supply and giving them greater priority.  
 
b. We are also making flats in choicer locations more 
affordable, and in a way that is fair and inclusive, through 
the “Prime, Plus, and Standard” framework. This will be 
implemented later this year for new BTO projects. 
 
99. Some couples have already booked their BTO flats, but they 
may like to have a place to stay temporarily, while they wait for the 
completion of their flats. And this is especially the case for those with 
young children.  
 

 
Page 46 of 86 
a. Currently, HDB offers subsidised rental housing under the 
Parenthood Provisional Housing Scheme (or the PPHS). 
 
b. HDB receives many such applications for the scheme, and 
is ramping up supply to meet the demand. But in the 
interim, we want to do more to support such young 
families with urgent housing needs.  
 
c. I will therefore provide a PPHS (Open Market) Voucher 
for one year, to support eligible families who rent a HDB 
flat in the open market.  
 
100. In this Budget, I will also do more for families of persons with 
special needs or disabilities. 
 
a. We know that families of children with special needs face 
greater cost pressures due to higher fees at education and 
care services. Every student at a Special Education (or 
SPED) school already benefits from more subsidies than a 
primary school student in a mainstream school. But the 
fees at most SPED schools remain higher than those of 
mainstream schools due to the higher underlying costs.  
 

 
Page 47 of 86 
b. We are studying further moves to alleviate the cost 
pressures on these families. As a first step, I will reduce 
the maximum monthly fees at SPED schools to $90, 
down from $150 today. I will also lower the fee caps at all 
Special Student Care Centres to reduce the out-of-pocket 
expenses for families. 
 
c. For adults with disabilities, I will provide more support 
for their employment and integration into the 
community. I will expand spaces in Sheltered Workshops 
and Day Activity Centres where they can undergo skills 
training, and launch more Enabling Services Hubs to 
provide community support to persons with disabilities 
and their caregivers.  
 
101. The respective Ministers will share more on each of these 
moves at the Committee of Supply.  
 
Strengthening Retirement Adequacy  
 
102. I will do more to support the retirement needs of our seniors.  
 
103. And let me start with some adjustments to the CPF system. 
(See Annex F-1.) 

 
Page 48 of 86 
 
104. First, in line with the recommendations of the Tripartite 
Workgroup on Older Workers, we will continue with the next step of 
planned CPF contribution rate increases for senior workers. I will 
increase the CPF contribution rates for those aged 55 to 65 by a 
further 1.5 percentage points in 2025.  
 
105. I will also provide the CPF Transition Offset to employers for 
another year, to cover half of the increase in employer contributions 
for 2025. This will help to cushion the impact on business costs.  
 
106. Second, I will raise the Enhanced Retirement Sum. 
 
a. The ERS is the maximum amount that members can put 
into their CPF Retirement Accounts to receive CPF 
payouts. 
 
b. I will increase the ERS from three times the Basic 
Retirement Sum, to four times, from 2025. This means the 
ERS next year will be $426,000. This will allow more 
members aged 55 and above to fully commit their 
accumulated CPF savings to receive higher CPF payouts, 
should they wish to do so.  
 

 
Page 49 of 86 
107. Third, we will take steps to rationalise the CPF system.  
 
a. Today, members aged 55 and above have a Special 
Account and a Retirement Account.  
 
b. From next year, we will close the SA – the Special Account 
– for those aged 55 and above. The SA savings will be 
transferred to the RA – the Retirement Account – up to 
the Full Retirement Sum, where they will continue to earn 
the long-term interest rate.  
 
c. The remaining SA savings will be transferred to the 
Ordinary Account. Of course, members can voluntarily 
transfer their OA savings to the RA at any time, up to the 
revised ERS, to earn higher interest, and to receive higher 
retirement payouts.  
 
108. I will also enhance the retirement support schemes for seniors 
who need more help.  
 
a. The Silver Support Scheme provides quarterly payments 
to seniors who had low incomes during their working 
years and have less family support. I will raise the 
qualifying per capita household income threshold for 

 
Page 50 of 86 
Silver Support from $1,800 to $2,300, and increase the 
quarterly payments by 20%, to keep pace with inflation. 
 
b. The Matched Retirement Savings Scheme (or the MRSS) 
helps Singaporeans aged 55 to 70 with less CPF savings to 
save more, by providing dollar-for-dollar matching for cash 
top-ups to their CPF accounts. I will make several 
adjustments to the scheme. 
 
c. I will extend the MRSS to those above the age of 70. This 
will enable more Singaporeans to meet their retirement 
needs, with the help of their families, employers, and the 
community.  
 
d. I will increase the annual matching cap from $600 to 
$2,000, and set a lifetime matching cap of $20,000.  
 
e. Currently, we provide a tax relief to encourage 
Singaporeans to top up their CPF. But the matching grant 
is already a significant benefit extended by the 
Government. So we will remove the tax relief for the cash 
top-ups that attract the matching grant.  
 

 
Page 51 of 86 
f. These changes to the Silver Support Scheme and the 
MRSS will take effect from 2025.  
 
109. “Young Seniors” who are currently in their 50s and early 60s will 
get an additional boost for their retirement through the Majulah 
Package. This was announced by Prime Minister Lee at last year’s 
National Day Rally.  
 
110. While the package is geared towards supporting Young Seniors, 
Pioneer and Merdeka Generation seniors will benefit too. In fact, all 
Singaporeans born in 1973 or earlier will receive at least one 
component of the Majulah Package. Let me explain. (See Annex F-2.) 
 
a. First, I will provide an Earn and Save Bonus, to help 
seniors earning up to $6,000 per month accumulate more 
retirement savings. They will receive a yearly bonus of up 
to $1,000 for as long as they work, with more going to 
those who earn lower incomes.  
 
b. Second, I will provide a one-time Retirement Savings 
Bonus of between $1,000 and $1,500 to seniors with 
retirement savings below the Basic Retirement Sum.  
 

 
Page 52 of 86 
c. Both these bonuses will be for seniors who live in a 
property with Annual Value of $25,000 or less, and own 
no more than one property.  
 
d. Third, I will provide a one-time MediSave Bonus to all 
seniors born in 1973 or earlier. Young Seniors with less 
means will be given the higher tier of $1,500; and all 
other seniors will receive $750.  
 
111. The Minister for Manpower will share more details at the COS.  
 
112. In all, the Majulah Package will benefit about 1.6 million 
Singaporeans, at a total lifetime cost of $8.2 billion. To honour this 
commitment without burdening future generations, I will set aside 
$7.5 billion in a new Fund – the Majulah Package Fund. And this will 
be sufficient to cover the lifetime cost of the Package, after 
accounting for investment income of the Fund.  
 
Keeping Healthcare Affordable and Accessible for All 
 
113. Another significant undertaking is healthcare. Over the years, 
we have invested heavily to ensure healthcare remains affordable 
and accessible for all.  
 

 
Page 53 of 86 
a. MOH’s annual budget has tripled within a decade.  
 
b. And we have put the additional spending to good use. We 
are devoting more resources to areas of growing 
importance, like preventive health, support for our 
seniors, and mental health and well-being, as recently 
affirmed by this House. We also continue to enjoy 
improvements in health outcomes, with Singaporeans 
living longer and healthier lives.  
 
114. But with a rapidly ageing population, the fiscal pressures of 
healthcare will only grow. As a responsible Government, we have to 
plan ahead and set aside sufficient resources to keep healthcare 
affordable for all.  
 
a. The GST increase was meant for this purpose.  
 
b. Essentially, we are pre-funding the rising healthcare 
expenditure by increasing GST now, instead of waiting to 
do so in the future. Because if we wait, we will end up 
imposing a heavier burden on our future selves and our 
children. 
 

 
Page 54 of 86 
115. Of course, individuals have a part to play too. That’s why we 
launched Healthier SG to empower all Singaporeans to take charge of 
our own health. While it is still early days, the momentum is very 
encouraging. More than 700,000 Singapore residents have enrolled 
in Healthier SG.  
 
a. One of them is Mdm Rubiah, who turns 69 this year. She 
credits her Healthier SG consultation for timely advice on 
how best to manage her health. Today, she is monitoring 
her blood pressure daily, cutting down on ice cream and 
keropok in her diet, and staying active through exercise 
classes and nature walks. She has also helped to spread 
the word, by volunteering at a Healthier SG roadshow.  
 
b. Sir, I urge all seniors to follow in the footsteps of Mdm 
Rubiah. Heed your doctor’s advice, participate in 
programmes that help you stay healthy, and even pass it 
on by contributing as a senior volunteer.  
 
116. Even with healthier lifestyles, all of us will still need some form 
of medical care as we get older, and especially nearer to the end of 
life. We must expect healthcare costs, including medical insurance 
premiums, to rise, even after generous Government subsidies.  
 

 
Page 55 of 86 
117. We want to ensure that all Singaporeans, including the self-
employed and those who are not working, are able to build up their 
medical savings in anticipation of these rising costs. I will therefore 
provide all adult Singaporeans aged 21 to 50 a one-time MediSave 
Bonus of up to $300.  
 
a. This will benefit about 1.4 million Singaporeans, and help 
them to cover their smaller medical bills and insurance 
premiums. (See Annex F-3.)  
 
b. And coupled with the Majulah Package for older cohorts, 
we will collectively provide a MediSave Bonus for about 3 
million Singaporeans this year.  
 
118. To provide more support for healthcare costs, I will also update 
the per capita household income thresholds for our healthcare and 
associated social support subsidy schemes.  
 
a. Such schemes include the MediShield Life premium 
subsidies, the Community Health Assist Scheme (or CHAS) 
subsidies for primary care, and subsidies for outpatient 
and inpatient treatments at our public hospitals. 
 

 
Page 56 of 86 
b. The changes to the per capita household income 
thresholds will mean additional Government spending in 
healthcare and other related areas of around $300 million 
per year. More than 1 million Singaporeans can expect to 
benefit from higher subsidies. This will provide greater 
assurance for healthcare costs, which will also reduce the 
financial pressures on caregivers. (See Annex F-4.) 
 
119. Preventive care is especially important for seniors. Loneliness 
can do great harm to a senior. They need to stay active and socially 
connected. This is why we have Age Well SG – it is a new national 
programme to support seniors to age actively, stay socially 
connected, and be cared for within their own communities. 
 
120. I will set aside $3.5 billion for Age Well SG initiatives over the 
next decade. And this includes several components. 
 
a. First, an expanded network of Active Ageing Centres, so 
that all seniors can look forward to a wider range of 
programmes at these centres, from physical exercises to 
volunteering opportunities.  
 
b. Second, for seniors with care needs, we will develop more 
assisted living options, such as Community Care 

 
Page 57 of 86 
Apartments and better home care arrangements, to 
empower them to age confidently in their homes and 
community.  
 
c. Third, “silver upgrades” to our residential estates, to 
enable seniors to live more independently and safely in 
the community. And this will cover amenities like 
therapeutic gardens and barrier-free ramps, and senior-
friendly home fittings such as wider toilet entrances and 
shower seats.  
 
d. Fourth, improvements to our commuter infrastructure for 
seniors’ mobility and safety. This means more sheltered 
linkways, bus stops with senior-friendly features, as well as 
safer and more pedestrian-friendly roads.  
 
121. Sir, when you combine of all these efforts, the suite of 
investments we are making – in education, housing, retirement, and 
healthcare – they speak to our steadfast commitment to address the 
needs of our families and seniors, through every stage of life. 
Through these investments, we will provide more assurance to all 
Singaporeans – to set minds at ease, improve lives and well-being, 
and ensure Singapore remains home truly for all of us. 
  

 
Page 58 of 86 
G. Forging a Stronger and More United Nation 
 
122. Alongside our investments to strengthen our economy and 
society, we will also make the investments needed to forge a stronger 
and more united nation. We will safeguard what makes Singapore 
special and resilient – our commitment to take care of and defend 
one another, sustain the trust we have in each other and our 
institutions, and build our strong sense of national pride and identity. 
 
A Safe and Secure Singapore 
 
123. Since independence, we have invested steadily to safeguard our 
peace and security.  
 
a. Over the last two decades, we have allocated around 3% 
to 4% of our GDP annually to MINDEF’s budget.  
 
b. At the same time, over the past decade, our spending on 
domestic security has doubled to more than $8 billion, or 
about 1.3% of our GDP .  
 
c. We will continue to build and maintain a strong and 
effective SAF and Home Team. We will invest in them, 

 
Page 59 of 86 
upgrade their capabilities year by year, to protect 
ourselves from potential aggressors and security threats.  
 
124. The backbone of our defence and security remains National 
Service. We owe a huge debt to our national servicemen, who have 
served faithfully, and made immeasurable sacrifices for our peace 
and security. 
 
a. I will therefore provide $200 in the form of LifeSG credits 
to all past and present national servicemen, including 
those enlisting this year. (See Annex G-1.) 
 
b. It is a small gesture, but when you add it all up, it will cost 
us $240 million and benefit 1.2 million national 
servicemen. I hope this will go some way in expressing our 
appreciation and gratitude to our national servicemen as 
well as their families for all that they have done, and will 
continue to do for our country.  
 
125. In today’s world, defence and security apply not just in the 
physical environment, but also in the digital domain. Scams, 
ransomware, data breaches, denial of service, and other cyber 
threats have become increasingly commonplace. The development 
and adoption of new technologies like AI and quantum computing 

 
Page 60 of 86 
also change the threat landscape. Cyberattacks will increase in speed, 
scale, and sophistication. 
 
126. We have taken steps to strengthen our cyber defence. We 
established the Digital and Intelligence Service in the SAF. We will 
establish a new National Cybersecurity Command Centre at the 
Punggol Digital District to better coordinate cyber defence 
operations, improve collaboration with industry and academia, and 
spur innovation in cybersecurity. This will improve our capabilities to 
monitor, detect, and coordinate our defences against cyber threats.  
 
Safeguarding Energy Security Amidst the Energy Transition 
 
127. Besides the conventional areas of security, we need to address 
an emerging security challenge – and that is energy, and more 
specifically the transition to cleaner energy.  
 
128. In the near to medium term, natural gas, which currently 
generates almost all of our electricity, will remain critical.  
 
a. Our natural gas supplies come through pipelines from 
Malaysia and Indonesia, and in the form of liquefied 
natural gas (or LNG) from a range of sources.  
 

 
Page 61 of 86 
b. We are now planning to build a second LNG terminal to 
meet our growing electricity needs.  
 
129. Natural gas is the cleanest of all fossil fuels. But we will not be 
able to achieve net zero if we continue to rely solely on natural gas. 
Unfortunately, we do not have many options for clean energy – we 
have no tidal power, no wind power, and not enough land for mass 
deployment of solar. So, what do we do? 
 
a. One way is to import low-carbon electricity.  
 
b. And we are making progress on this front.  
 
c. But there is a limit to importing electricity without 
compromising security. So we will need other options to 
decarbonise the rest of our energy supply. 
 
130. And that is why we are actively exploring other options.  
 
a. Hydrogen has the potential as a clean fuel. For now, it is 
still technologically nascent, costly, and risky. 
Nevertheless, we have set out a National Hydrogen 
Strategy to take purposeful steps forward. We will start by 
testing and deploying ammonia, which is a hydrogen 

 
Page 62 of 86 
carrier, for power generation and bunkering on Jurong 
Island.  
 
b. We are also exploring other energy sources. We are 
actively studying the possibilities for geothermal power. 
After all, we do have a hot spring in Sembawang. But we 
will need very deep drilling to assess the potential, and it 
really remains to be seen if this will be viable. 
 
c. Further out in the future, we do not rule out nuclear 
power. Nuclear technologies are advancing rapidly, with 
smaller, safer, and more fuel-efficient designs. We will 
build up our capabilities, so that we can critically assess 
the evolving technologies in this space and decide on the 
feasibility of nuclear deployment one day in the future.  
 
131. There is considerable uncertainty as to how all these energy 
pathways will work out. What is clear, however, is that significant 
effort and costs will be needed to transit from a system powered 
almost entirely by natural gas to one powered largely by clean 
energy.  
 
a. We say this is an “energy transition”. Transition is a rather 
innocuous word. But the scale of this so-called transition 

 
Page 63 of 86 
is massive, and we will need to get it done over the next 
two decades or so, which is not a lot of time, when you 
think about the enormity of the task.  
 
b. For example, to import low-carbon electricity, we will 
need to invest in submarine cables and upgrade our 
existing power grid. Or if we decide to scale up the use of 
hydrogen, we will need to put in place new infrastructure 
for generation, storage, and delivery. All of these 
investments will be costly. They cannot be done by the 
private sector alone, and will likely need some catalytic 
funding from the Government.  
 
c. I will therefore set up a Future Energy Fund with an initial 
injection of $5 billion. This will give us the confidence to 
invest in good time, put us in a better position to move 
quickly on critical infrastructure, and enhance our security 
in clean energy.  
 
Building a United Nation 
 
132. The resilience of our nation of course is not only measured by 
what we spend, or by our infrastructure and hardware. Rather, our 
true resilience lies within – in the strong bonds Singaporeans have 

 
Page 64 of 86 
forged among ourselves and in our collective willingness to take care 
of one another. Every Singaporean man, woman, and child knows he 
or she belongs to this island nation, everyone has a place in our 
society, each has a role to play in our unfolding Singapore story. That 
is the essence of Total Defence, which we commemorated for the 
40th time yesterday.  
 
133. We nurture these bonds between Singaporeans by 
strengthening our culture of giving.  
 
a. There are many who have done well in Singapore and 
they want to give back, but they may not know how or 
where to start.  
 
b. We will do more to help these donors better appreciate 
the needs of our society and advise them on how to more 
effectively direct their resources – financial or non-
financial – to support lower-income families. This effort 
will be led by the Community Foundation of Singapore, in 
partnership with MSF and the Community Chest.  
 
c. In the same spirit, we want to encourage charities to work 
together to uplift each other and better meet the needs of 
their beneficiaries. I will do so by extending the Charities 

 
Page 65 of 86 
Capability Fund Collaboration Grant for three years till 
end-FY2026. This will support collaborative projects 
among charities to enhance their governance, efficiency, 
and capabilities.  
 
134. Doing good also extends beyond our shores. Many 
Singaporeans readily step forward to support those affected by 
humanitarian crises overseas.  
 
a. We saw this in the relief efforts following the devasting 
earthquake in Türkiye and Syria last year; and also in the 
generous donations in response to the human tragedy 
arising from the Israel-Hamas conflict.  
 
b. To encourage Singaporeans to support those in need 
overseas, I will introduce an Overseas Humanitarian 
Assistance Tax Deduction Scheme. This will provide 100% 
tax deductions for cash donations made towards overseas 
emergency humanitarian assistance causes through 
designated charities. This will run for four years as a pilot 
scheme. (See Annex G-2.) 
 
135. A stronger culture of giving will bind us closer together, and 
make us a more caring and gracious society.  

 
Page 66 of 86 
 
136. Another way to strengthen our solidarity is through the 
common experiences we all partake in. And the arts and sports 
provide us with the platforms to do so.  
 
137. Let me start with the arts. The arts help to express our unique 
Singaporean culture, strengthen our shared bonds, and make 
Singapore a distinctive home. 
 
a. The National Arts Council has refreshed Our SG Arts Plan 
to drive transformation efforts in the arts sector. We will 
support this plan by investing $100 million over the next 
four years.  
 
b. As part of this plan, we aim to make the arts more 
accessible to all Singaporeans. We will unlock more 
opportunities and touchpoints for our artists to infuse the 
arts everywhere in our city, and in our communities.  
 
c. The additional investments will also strengthen the 
foundation for a more vibrant arts industry. NAC will 
support arts groups to develop and showcase their 
diverse offerings as well as to strengthen our talent pool. 
Self-employed artists will also benefit from more 

 
Page 67 of 86 
development opportunities to broaden and deepen their 
skills.  
 
138. Apart from the arts, there are few endeavours that can rally the 
country and ignite the Singapore spirit like sports. From the 
grassroots to the global stage, from community participation to high-
performance, sports bring Singaporeans from all walks of life 
together.  
 
139. At the grassroots level, we will enable more Singaporeans to 
participate in sports by continuing to support the Sports Facilities 
Master Plan. With this, Singaporeans can look forward to new and 
rejuvenated sports centres in Toa Payoh, Punggol, and Clementi, as 
well as more sports and recreational facilities in our neighbourhoods.  
 
140. Many Singaporeans want to support our national athletes, and 
we will provide them with more platforms to do so.  
 
141. We will anchor more major sports events in Singapore, so that 
our athletes can compete in top-tier competitions against the world’s 
best on home ground, and this will also allow more Singaporeans to 
cheer for Team Singapore. 
 

 
Page 68 of 86 
142. We now have the One Team Singapore Fund, which provides 
dollar-for-dollar matching for donations towards Team Singapore 
athletes.  
 
a. I will provide a $20 million top-up for the One Team 
Singapore Fund and extend it till end-FY2027.  
 
b. In addition, I will broaden the scope of donations eligible 
for matching to cover athletes in emerging sports, like 
pickleball, tchoukball, and powerlifting. I will also include 
SportCares, which provides opportunities for vulnerable 
children and youth, persons with disabilities, and seniors 
to participate in sporting programmes.  
 
143. The Minister for Culture, Community, and Youth will share more 
about our arts and sports initiatives at the COS. 
 
144. Sir, everywhere in the world, we see societies becoming 
increasingly divided, and nations becoming more and more fragile. 
Economic growth or social transfers alone cannot guarantee that we 
succeed.  
 
145. This Budget therefore invests in our national resilience – from 
ensuring the effectiveness of our military and domestic security, to 

 
Page 69 of 86 
safeguarding our energy security and building a stronger national 
identity. These will shield us from external threats and the forces that 
threaten to pull us apart. Only then can we be confident that 
Singapore will endure.  
  

 
Page 70 of 86 
H. Securing Our Fiscal Position 
 
146. Our ability to invest in our economy, our society, and our 
resilience has to be anchored on a strong fiscal position. 
  
147. Fiscal responsibility has always been a key part of the Singapore 
DNA. We spend our resources wisely, and we take great care to 
provide for our children and grandchildren. This is why I made major 
revenue moves in the last two Budgets. These moves have put us on 
a stronger fiscal footing for the next decade, while ensuring that our 
overall system of public finances remains fair and progressive.  
 
Tax Changes  
 
148. This year, in light of concerns over cost of living, I will provide a 
Personal Income Tax Rebate of 50% for the Year of Assessment 2024. 
 
a. This will be capped at $200 so that the benefits go mostly 
to our middle-income workers.  
 
b. The rebate will cost the Government $350 million. 
 
149. Currently, taxpayers may claim a range of dependant-related 
reliefs, if their dependants have an annual income of $4,000 or less. 

 
Page 71 of 86 
We have received feedback from members of public, tax 
practitioners, as well as Labour MPs, to consider increasing the 
dependant income threshold in view of rising cost of living and wage 
levels. So with effect from the Year of Assessment 2025, I will 
increase the annual income threshold for dependant-related reliefs 
from $4,000 to $8,000. 
 
150. In Budget 2022, I announced a two-step increase in Property 
Tax rates for residential properties. This was meant as a wealth tax, 
targeted at all investment properties, as well as the higher-end 
segment of owner-occupied properties.  
 
151. Prior to that Budget announcement, market rents had been 
relatively flat for the preceding five years. But from 2022 onwards, 
market rents increased significantly due to the combination of strong 
demand and Covid-related supply constraints. As a result, the Annual 
Values (or the AVs) also increased sharply. We had originally expected 
the Property Tax changes to impact mainly the top 7% of owner-
occupied residential properties. But the AV increases resulted in the 
proportion of affected owner-occupied properties nearly doubling to 
13%.  
 
152. In light of these market trends, I will raise all the AV bands of 
the owner-occupier residential Property Tax rates with effect from 1 

 
Page 72 of 86 
January 2025. Currently, Property Tax is charged on the bands of AV 
from $8,000 to over $100,000. I will raise the lower threshold from 
$8,000 to $12,000 and the highest band from over $100,000 to over 
$140,000, and corresponding adjustments will be made to the bands 
in between. This will still uphold the intent of the Property Tax 
changes, and ensure that those residing in higher-value properties 
continue to pay their fair share of taxes.  
 
153. And the Government had provided a rebate to cushion the 
impact of the Property Tax changes this year. We will continue to 
closely monitor the property market, and will provide another rebate 
in 2025 if needed. 
 
154. We recognise that there are retirees living in higher-end 
residential homes, who face cash flow issues when paying their 
Property Tax bills. To help them, IRAS will offer a 24-month 
instalment plan without any interest. They can apply for this via IRAS’ 
website or contact IRAS for more details.  
 
155. Next, I will adjust the Additional Buyer’s Stamp Duty (or the 
ABSD) for the purchase of residential properties.  
 
a. Today, married couples with an existing residential 
property can enjoy an ABSD refund on their replacement 

 
Page 73 of 86 
private property under the ABSD concession for 
Singaporean married couples.   
 
b. To better support seniors who wish to right-size, I will 
extend the concession to single Singapore Citizens aged 
55 and above. In other words, these seniors will be able 
to claim a refund of ABSD paid on their replacement 
private property, if they sell their first property within six 
months after purchasing a lower-value replacement 
private property. This extension will take effect from 
today.  
 
156. I will also introduce some flexibility to the ABSD regime for 
housing developers.  
 
a. Housing developers are now granted an ABSD remission, 
provided they sell all the units in their development 
within a prescribed sale timeline.  
 
b. But despite their best efforts, the developers sometimes 
face difficulties in meeting this timeline requirement. 
They are then subject to a full clawback of the ABSD.  
 

 
Page 74 of 86 
c. I will lower the ABSD clawback rate, should developers 
sell at least 90% of each development within the 
prescribed sale timeline. This ensures that housing supply 
continues to be released promptly, while providing some 
flexibility to the developers. The details of this change will 
be released in a statement later today.  
 
BEPS 2.0  
 
157. Next: Corporate Income Tax – I will make significant 
adjustments to our tax system to take into consideration the 
international Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (or BEPS) 2.0 initiative.  
 
158. To recap, BEPS comprises two pillars:  
 
a. Pillar One aims to reallocate taxing rights on profits to 
market jurisdictions. When implemented, it will result in 
revenue losses for Singapore. 
 
b. Pillar One has been delayed for now, and the 
implementation date remains unclear. 
 
c. Pillar Two will introduce a global minimum effective tax 
rate of 15% for large MNE groups.  

 
Page 75 of 86 
 
d. Last Budget, I announced our intention to implement 
Pillar Two from 2025, and that we would monitor and 
adjust the timeline if needed.  
 
e. Since then, several jurisdictions have moved. The EU, the 
UK, Switzerland, Japan, and Korea are implementing Pillar 
Two rules from 2024. Others, like Hong Kong and 
Malaysia, have announced their plans to do so from 2025.  
 
159. We will therefore move ahead with two components of Pillar 
Two, as planned.  
 
a. The first is the Income Inclusion Rule (or IIR). A 
jurisdiction that introduces this will subject the overseas 
profits of MNE groups parented in that jurisdiction to a 
minimum effective tax rate of 15%.  
 
b. So we will implement the IIR. In other words, MNE groups 
that are parented in Singapore will have to pay a 
minimum effective tax rate of 15% on their groups’ 
overseas profits, regardless of where they operate.  
 

 
Page 76 of 86 
c. The second component is the Domestic Top-up Tax (or 
the DTT). This applies to the Singapore profits of MNE 
groups operating here. Without this tax, these MNE 
groups would have had to pay their parent jurisdictions 
the effective tax rate of 15% on their Singapore profits. 
Therefore, it is in our interest to implement the DTT, so 
that we collect the tax, rather than have it go somewhere 
else.  
 
d. The IIR and the DTT will take effect for businesses’ 
financial years starting on or after 1 January 2025, and will 
apply to large MNE groups with global revenue of at least 
750 million euros annually. 
 
160. There is another component of Pillar Two: the Undertaxed 
Profits Rule.  
 
a. This is effectively a backstop, as it will allow Singapore to 
collect a share of the top-up tax on any MNE with 
operations here, if any portion of its income overseas has 
not been subject to the minimum tax.  
 
b. We will consider this at a later stage. Because with the 
DTT and IIR, we are already making major changes to our 

 
Page 77 of 86 
corporate tax regime. So we will focus on implementing 
these changes first, and ensure a smooth rollout for the 
affected companies.  
 
161. In the short term, the implementation of Pillar Two will provide 
additional revenues. But it is uncertain how much this will be or how 
long it will last. We may even see a reduction in our tax base, should 
MNEs shift some of their activities to other jurisdictions in response 
to the new business environment.  
 
162. In any case, whatever additional revenues we obtain from Pillar 
Two will need to be reinvested for Singapore to stay competitive in a 
post-BEPS world.  
 
a. MNEs are now re-evaluating their plans and strategies. 
Other governments are also enhancing and refreshing 
their investment promotion toolkits. 
 
b. That is why we are introducing the Refundable Investment 
Credit, which I mentioned earlier. We will also have to 
spend more to support new investments, research and 
innovation activities, and sustain our economic 
competitiveness.  
 

 
Page 78 of 86 
c. Overall, given the significant spending required to stay 
competitive, at this point, I do not expect the new moves 
to generate net revenue gains for Singapore on a 
sustained basis.  
 
163. I will also make some further tax adjustments, to ensure our tax 
system remains fair and competitive. And details of the tax changes 
are in the Annex to the Budget. (See Annex H-1.)  
 
Medium-Term Outlook 
 
164. Sir, last year, the Ministry of Finance released a set of 
projections of our medium-term fiscal outlook.  
 
a. These showed that Government spending has been rising 
steadily over the years.  
 
b. Our spending in the late 2000s was around 15% of GDP . 
And over the span of ten years, it has grown by 3 
percentage points of GDP, to around 18% of GDP .  
 
c. We expect spending to continue rising in this decade. 
Healthcare is one key driver for the increase. But there are 
additional spending needs fuelling the increase.  

 
Page 79 of 86 
 
d. We will have to spend more for the major moves to 
decarbonise our economy, as I explained earlier.  
 
e. As part of Forward Singapore, we are making significant 
policy shifts to strengthen our social safety nets, and 
provide more assurance to Singaporeans. I have just 
introduced some of these measures in this year’s Budget. 
We will spend around $5 billion on Forward Singapore 
policy moves in FY2024, and close to $40 billion in total by 
the end of this decade.  
 
165. In our projections, MOF had assessed that Government 
spending will increase to around 20% of GDP by 2030. For now, that 
remains our assessment. Assuming we stay within this range of 
spending increase, we should have sufficient revenues to maintain a 
balanced budget over the coming years.  
 
166. But the medium-term fiscal position is tight. Because there are 
so many pressures for us to spend more, be it on healthcare, social 
needs, or the energy transition, and these are all big-ticket items. We 
will have to manage these expenditures carefully, or we will end up 
with a significant funding gap.  
 

 
Page 80 of 86 
167. We can already see this happening in many other advanced 
economies where public finances are on an unsustainable path, and 
fiscal systems are at risk of breaking. We must never allow this to 
happen in Singapore. Instead, let us uphold the ethos of fiscal 
discipline and responsibility that has served us well, and ensure that 
our fiscal position always remains balanced, sound, and sustainable.  
 
FY2023 and FY2024 Fiscal Position  
 
168. Sir, let me now summarise our fiscal position for both FY2023 
and FY2024.  
 
169. For FY2023, our revenue collections were better than expected. 
And this was mainly due to higher Corporate Income Tax collections.  
 
170. The additional revenue will allow us to pay for new spending, 
including the $7.5 billion injection to the Majulah Package Fund.  
 
171. Accounting for both our revenue upside and higher spending, 
we expect to end FY2023 with a deficit of $3.6 billion, or 0.5% of GDP .  
 
172. For FY2024, we are budgeting a small surplus of $0.8 billion, or 
0.1% of GDP, which is essentially a balanced fiscal position. The 
overall stance is appropriate, as we are providing targeted support 

 
Page 81 of 86 
for households and businesses, even as the economy is projected to 
operate at around potential. (See Annex H-2.)  

 
Page 82 of 86 
I. Conclusion 
 
173. Mr Speaker, let me conclude.  
 
174. We are living in a world which will become more violent, more 
fragmented, and more unpredictable in the years to come.  
 
a. We wish this were not so.  
 
b. We will try our best, working with others in the 
international community, to shape better global 
outcomes.  
 
c. But we also have to be realistic. Great catastrophes often 
seem unthinkable until they happen. Things may well get 
worse before they get better. So let us be mentally 
prepared, and take steps now to adapt to this messy 
world.  
 
175. This is not the first time that we’ve found ourselves in such a 
situation.  
 
a. Since our independence, we’ve had to adjust to all sorts of 
external disruptions and shocks. 

 
Page 83 of 86 
 
b. The British deciding to withdraw troops from Singapore in 
1967; the global oil crises in 1973 and 1979; the Asian 
Financial Crisis in 1997; the dot-com bust in the early 
2000s; 9/11; SARS; the Global Financial Crisis of 2008; and 
of course, more recently the Covid-19 pandemic.  
 
c. Each time, we were able to weather the storms, and 
emerge stronger.  
 
d. I believe we can do so again in our road ahead – so long as 
we stay united, work together, and continue to keep faith 
in each other.  
 
176. Budget 2024 is about acting on this belief. We are helping 
Singaporeans with their cost-of-living concerns. We are taking major 
steps to advance our Forward Singapore agenda.  
 
a. We will grow the economy. We must. For growth is the 
pre-requisite to create better jobs and raise living 
standards for all.  
 
b. We will equip everyone to realise their full potential, and 
ensure that everyone benefits from our nation’s progress.  

 
Page 84 of 86 
 
c. We will strengthen our system of risk pooling and social 
support, so that Singaporeans can be better assured 
through every life stage, and better equipped to bounce 
back from every setback.  
 
d. We will fortify our resilience, solidarity, and unity, so that 
we remain strong and effective against any challenges or 
threats.  
 
177. We are not the only country adapting to a different world. 
Countries everywhere are searching for solutions too. Many find it 
hard to implement bold and long-term plans.  
 
178. But we can make it happen in Singapore.  
 
179. We are able to do so because: 
 
a. Our fiscal position is healthy and sustainable.  
 
b. Our Government has the trust of Singaporeans.  
 
c. Our people are united, and our social compact is strong.  
 

 
Page 85 of 86 
180. These are the critical ingredients behind the Singapore story.  
 
a. What we have today is rare, remarkable, and unique.  
 
b. Let us cherish it, treasure it, and harness these strengths 
to remain a shining red dot in a troubled world.  
 
181. During the dark days of Covid-19, which feels like a bad dream 
to all of us now, I remember visiting Riverside Secondary School. The 
teacher had asked the students to imagine what they would be doing 
in ten years’ time, and to write a letter to their future selves.  
 
a. One student – Levin Ong – wrote, and I quote: “Dear 
future Levin, I hope you have been well in these past ten 
years. I am grateful for how Singapore is dealing with 
Covid-19… the challenges I face are small compared to 
others during this difficult time. I want the world to be a 
better place and contribute back to society to the best of 
my ability. I hope, by 2030, I have made a better world for 
everyone.”  
 
b. Hope for the future. Giving back to society. Each one of us 
doing our best to make this a better place for all.  
 

 
Page 86 of 86 
182. Mr Speaker, let us draw inspiration from young Singaporeans 
like Levin, move forward with confidence, and build our shared 
future together.  
 
183. Sir, I beg to move.  