 
Page 1 of 56 
 
BUDGET 2024 ROUND UP SPEECH 
 
A. Introduction 
 
1. Mr Speaker, I thank all Members who have spoken and supported 
the Budget.  
 
2. Members have raised many suggestions during this debate. I will 
not be able to address all of them in my response. But I assure you that 
we have heard your feedback, and we will study your suggestions 
carefully. For more detailed issues relating to specific schemes and 
programmes, these will be addressed later at the Committee of Supply.  
 
3. The questions raised by Members in this debate largely revolve 
around three issues. 
 
a. Are we doing enough to help Singaporeans cope with higher 
prices? 
 
b. How will we achieve better growth and help Singaporeans 
secure a better future?  

 
Page 2 of 56 
 
 
c. Is our system of social support sufficient to support 
Singaporeans?   
 
4. Let me address these three issues in turn. 
  

 
Page 3 of 56 
 
B. Are we doing enough to help Singaporeans cope with inflation?  
 
5. First, on helping Singaporeans cope with inflation and cost 
pressures.  Several Members, including Mr Yip Hon Weng, Mr Gan 
Thiam Poh, Mr Henry Kwek, Ms Hazel Poa and many others, spoke 
about this.   
 
6. Let us start by looking at the reasons for high inflation over the 
last two years.  These reasons are certainly not unique to Singapore.  
For more than a decade before Covid, global inflation was generally 
stable, hovering at around 4% per annum. Singapore enjoyed relatively 
stable inflation too, and in most years, it was lower than global inflation.  
 
7. But in 2021, prices in global food, goods, and energy markets rose 
quickly, as strong demand came up against constrained supply due to 
pandemic-related restrictions.  
 
8. Then the Russia-Ukraine war broke out in early 2022. The two 
countries are major suppliers of key commodities, like oil and gas, 
fertiliser, and wheat. This brought about a further surge in prices.  Many 
countries also saw a surge in demand for domestic services, and did not 
have sufficient workers to meet the demand.   

 
Page 4 of 56 
 
 
9. These are the key drivers of inflation everywhere. Singapore, like 
all other countries, felt the impact too.   
 
10. Even so, inflation in Singapore did not reach the peaks seen in 
several parts of the world.  
 
11. One reason was effective monetary policy. MAS tightened 
monetary policy five consecutive times starting in October 2021. This 
meant allowing the Singapore dollar to appreciate more quickly, which 
helped to shield us against the sharp spike in imported inflation. Had 
MAS not acted, core inflation for the whole of 2023 would have been 
6.6%, instead of 4.2%. 
 
12. Other major central banks acted too.   
 
13. With the overall monetary tightening and the stabilisation of 
supply chains, significant headway has been made in bringing inflation 
down around the world.  
 
14. Overall inflation has come down, in line with the rest of the world. 
In Singapore, our headline inflation was already moderating since last 

 
Page 5 of 56 
 
year, and is expected to moderate further this year. We expect this 
trend to continue, similar to other advanced economies.   
 
 
15. Several Members, including Ms Ng Ling Ling, Mr Ong Hua Han, 
and Mr Faisal Manap, also highlighted other specific cost items – 
namely in housing and transport.  So, let’s drill deeper into this data.  
 
16. Take public housing. Over the last 10 years, the average price of a 
4-room BTO flat in non-mature estates has remained relatively stable, 
even as median household incomes increased. So, in real terms, the 
affordability of such BTO flats has, in fact, improved. The challenge we 
faced was with the prices of BTO flats in choicer locations, which are 
Co parison o  Inflation Rates
 Singapore and  orld 
-2%
0%
2%
4%
6%
8%
10%
2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 2022
Singapore  orld
Source   epartment of Statistics  Singapore  and International Monetary Fund World Economic Outlook  World .
Notes  Figures in chart refer to headline inflation in Singapore and the World, based on latest available data.

 
Page 6 of 56 
 
more expensive. That is why we introduced the new Standard, Plus, and 
Prime framework. With this framework, we can keep the BTO flats in 
these better locations affordable through more upfront subsidies. But it 
will be a fair system, because the additional subsidies will be clawed 
back when the first owners sell the flats.   
 
17. Or take public transport. The Government is already providing 
generous subsidies to keep our public transport system going. Fares 
have increased, but household incomes have risen faster. That is why 
the proportion of household income spent on public transport has 
fallen over the last 10 years.   
 
18. We also track real wages closely. As Members are aware, real 
wage growth was negative last year. But we know that many employers 
are complaining of shortage of workers and higher wage costs, 
especially in services.  So, it is not negative across the board. Some 
workers are still getting real wage increases, and at the household level, 
there was real median income growth, on a per household member 
basis.   
 

 
Page 7 of 56 
 
19. Sir, I have provided some key data points, so that we can 
understand the facts around the inflation situation globally and in 
Singapore.  
 
20. In countries everywhere, including in Singapore, there tends to be 
a gap between economic data and perceptions. It is partly because it 
takes time for consumers to adjust to new economic realities.  
 
21. Perceptions and sentiments are clearly important, and we take the 
feedback from the ground seriously, but we also need to examine the 
data closely to better shape policy responses.  
 
22. It is in this broader context that the Government had extended 
support packages over the last two years to cushion the impact of 
inflation, particularly for lower- and middle-income Singaporeans. 
 
23. This year, while inflation is moderating, we recognise that prices 
are still relatively high, and there are continued pressures for families 
and individuals.  That is why I have enhanced the Assurance Package in 
this Budget.  
 

 
Page 8 of 56 
 
24. We have designed and sized the support of the enhancements 
carefully. There is something for everyone, regardless of age, property 
type, or income.   
 
25. But we also do not want to inadvertently stimulate demand too 
much and push up prices, something which Ms Foo Mee Har cautioned 
against. So, the support is targeted and tilted towards those with less.    
 
26. What will we achieve through the enhancements to the Assurance 
Package in this Budget? For lower-income households, it will fully cover 
their increase in spending due to inflation this year. For middle-income 
households, it will substantially cover the increase in spending due to 
inflation this year.  
 
27. We are not only helping families. We are also helping businesses 
cope with higher costs, especially SMEs. 
 
28. One of the reasons for rising business costs is higher wages for 
Singaporeans. For example, we are raising the wages for lower-wage 
workers.  I am sure everyone supports this. But it will mean higher costs 

 
Page 9 of 56 
 
initially for businesses, especially SMEs.  That is why the Government is 
doing more in this budget to co-fund the increase.   
 
29. Similarly, as Senior Minister of State Heng Chee How highlighted, 
we are raising CPF contributions for older workers so that they have 
sufficient savings for their retirement. Again, this will lead to higher 
costs for businesses.  But the Government will offset half the increase in 
employer contributions for 2025.   
 
30. We are doing more to help businesses in this Budget through the 
Enterprise Support Package – this is the most generous Corporate 
Income Tax rebate we have extended to date. For all eligible firms, 
including those that are not profitable, we are providing a cash grant. 
The support can be used to defray cost increases, in wages, rentals, 
utilities, or transport, depending on the circumstances of each business. 
 
31. I understand that some groups will feel that the help extended is 
still not enough. But I hope everyone can appreciate the bigger picture. 
We are going through a rough patch of higher prices due to forces well 
beyond our control. We are not the only country facing these 
difficulties. The Government will do everything we can to help 

 
Page 10 of 56 
 
households and businesses to get through this rough patch. Already, the 
situation is improving, and it should get better this year.  
 
32. But ultimately, the best way to deal with inflation is for businesses 
and wages to grow in real terms. To achieve that, we need better 
economic growth.   
  

 
Page 11 of 56 
 
 
C. How will we sustain growth and help Singaporeans secure a better 
 uture? 
 
33. So, this leads me to the second issue – how can we sustain growth 
and help Singaporeans secure a better future?  Many Members spoke 
up about this, including Ms Jessica Tan, Mr Saktiandi Supaat, Mr Shawn 
Huang, Mr Sharael Taha, and Mr Vikram Nair, among others.  
 
34. Securing economic growth is more than just a statistic – it is about 
how we stay relevant, add value to the world, and make a living for 
ourselves.   
 
35. The reality is that Singapore will always be a little red dot. We 
have no hinterland.  We have no natural resources, unlike resource-rich 
countries like Qatar or the UAE. If we falter, no one will come to our 
rescue.   
 
36. Moreover, businesses have so many options when they wish to 
invest or site their global or regional headquarters and operations.  We 
know that Singapore is not the cheapest location. So, we must work 

 
Page 12 of 56 
 
even harder to add value and justify the Singapore premium. This is 
what we have been continually doing since our independence.   
 
37. Our economy today reflects this progress up the value chain. Take 
the example of an MNE like Siemens.  It is one of the few companies 
that have been in Singapore for more than a century, since 1908. 
Siemens today has changed many times over from when it started. It 
has significantly expanded and upgraded its business, from a small sales 
office to electronics assembly in the 1970s. 
 
38. Now, it provides technologies across a range of sectors, including 
transport systems, water treatment technologies, and medical 
diagnostic equipment. Last year, it announced that it will establish a 
new high-tech factory in Singapore, which will employ significant levels 
of automation and digitalisation. 
  
39. Along the way, Siemens has spun off new sub-units, including the 
semiconductor company Infineon Technologies, which some of you may 
have heard of.  Some of these sub-units have grown into industry 
leaders in their own right, with their key manufacturing and R&  
functions based here in Singapore.  

 
Page 13 of 56 
 
 
40. Sir, there are many other examples like this.  MNEs have continued 
to grow and upgrade their presence here in Singapore because they 
value our skilled workforce, our infrastructure, and our connectivity to 
help them better access key markets in the region and beyond. So, 
when you add it all up, it means that the value-added content of our 
manufacturing sector has increased.  We are able to command better 
prices in world markets, and this in turn benefits our workers, who are 
able to enjoy higher wages.   
 
41. This is how we are able to stay competitive, despite our higher 
costs. One way to see this is to look at Singapore’s share of global 
exports. Since 2010, even while our cost base has gone up, our share of 
the world’s total goods exports has been maintained at about 2%. Our 
share of global services exports has increased from 2.5% to 4.1%. We 
are able to hold our own, maintain our competitiveness and add value 
to make a living for ourselves and for our workers.  
 
42. The question is how do we continue to maintain or even increase 
our share of global exports in the years to come? The only way is 
through productivity improvements, something which  eputy Prime 
Minister Heng emphasised yesterday.  

 
Page 14 of 56 
 
 
43. We aim for 2~3% economic growth per annum over the next 
decade on average.  Of this, about 1~2 percentage points should be 
from productivity improvements. 
 
44. To be clear, this is a very ambitious goal. Only a few countries, at 
our stage of development, have been able to sustain such high 
productivity growth. It requires a continual transformation of our 
economy. Firms need to learn new ways to do business, workers need 
to learn new skills to contribute differently, and to embrace new 
technologies. New firms in new sectors must start up and grow, and 
more than replace the firms in declining industries. As Ms Mariam 
Jaafar and several Members have noted, this is a massive undertaking – 
but we are aiming high and we are determined to do our best to 
achieve this. 
 
45. One key strategy is to attract more high-quality investments into 
Singapore.  Because these investments typically involve cutting-edge 
and innovative activities. They help to push the productivity frontier and 
that is why we need new investment promotion tools like the 
Refundable Investment Credit. 
 

 
Page 15 of 56 
 
46. Another strategy is to maintain consistent and steady investments 
in R& . And that is why we are making the top-up to RIE2025 in this 
Budget, which will sustain Government investment in R&  at about 1% 
of our G P. This will yield dividends over time.  
 
47. Some have voiced concerns about whether we will become a two-
track economy – one track for MNEs and another track for SMEs. I can 
understand these concerns, but it is not so helpful to think of the 
economy in terms of larger foreign and smaller local companies.  
  
48. A better way is to consider the two broad segments of the 
economy – one that is outward-oriented and another that is domestic-
oriented.  Every economy, including in Singapore, has these two 
segments. And each faces different challenges and business conditions.  
 
49. The outward-oriented segment of the economy comprises MNEs, 
but it also has many local enterprises, big and small. Together, they 
make up about 60% of the firms in Singapore. And there are many 
supplier and partnership arrangements between MNEs and local firms. 
We want to encourage more of these partnerships, and we have 
enhanced the PACT scheme in this Budget to do so.  

 
Page 16 of 56 
 
 
50. Companies in this outward-oriented segment are generally more 
productive and also have some scale.  They have to be. They compete in 
the global marketplace. They must continuously innovate and up their 
game.  Otherwise, they will fall behind and they will lose their share of 
the global market. 
 
51. Not surprisingly, these companies have high take-up of 
Government schemes that help them invest in R& , automation and 
productivity improvements. They do not need to be persuaded to do so. 
Everything is at stake for them. 
  
52. Given their higher productivity, this outward-oriented segment 
accounts for about 75% of our economy in terms of nominal value 
added.  
  
53. The remaining 25% of our economy comprises mainly domestic-
oriented sectors like F&B, retail, and construction.   
 
54. These are more labour-intensive. And there are also domestic 
services that are high-touch in nature like childcare and elderly care, 
which require more workers. These domestic-oriented sectors tend to 

 
Page 17 of 56 
 
be less productive than the outward-oriented sectors. Now, that is not 
unique to Singapore – it is the same for all other economies. But the 
productivity of some of our domestic-oriented sectors lags behind 
similar sectors in other advanced economies. For example, the 
productivity of our construction sector is about one-quarter that of 
Switzerland.  
 
55. Of course, within our domestic-oriented sectors, there is a range 
of firms. Some are embracing change and restructuring themselves to 
be more productive. Others are less ready to do so. That is why we can 
and we must do more to encourage and support companies, especially 
SMEs, in their restructuring journey.  
  
56. Several Members spoke on this, including Mr Chong Kee Hiong, 
Mr Keith Chua, Mr Neil Parekh, Mr  errick Goh, and Mr Mark Lee, and 
we will consider all of your suggestions. But we also have to be careful 
that Government support does not inadvertently prop up outdated or 
unviable business models, and hinder restructuring.   
 
57. That is why our support schemes are geared towards supporting 
business owners who are themselves prepared to embrace change, and 

 
Page 18 of 56 
 
to adopt new and more productive solutions.   This is what we have 
done and will continue to do. 
 
58. While we push hard on productivity growth, we also need our 
workforce to grow. This is one issue that comes up repeatedly in all our 
engagements with businesses, especially SMEs – they just cannot find 
enough workers.  
  
59. Some of the increase in the workforce will come from growing our 
resident workforce. But we know that the increase in our own resident 
workforce has been slowing and will not be sufficient to meet the 
demands of our economy. So, it will have to be complemented by a 
continued inflow of foreign work pass holders.  
 
60. We already have in place a comprehensive system of controls to 
regulate the quality and the number of incoming work pass holders. 
This applies across every level of the workforce.  
 
61. At the lower end of the income spectrum, we have Work Permit 
holders. They comprise about two-thirds of our total foreign workforce, 
and mostly take up roles that Singaporeans do not want to do, for 
example, in construction.     

 
Page 19 of 56 
 
 
62. We have not loosened our Work Permit controls. We have no 
intention to do so. But even at present settings, firms are able to bring 
in more workers, because of the demand. We are building more public 
housing, more residential housing projects. We are ramping up and 
going ahead with major infrastructure projects like the MRT, Changi T5 
and Tuas Port. Workers are needed to build these projects, so the firms 
are bringing in more of them.  
 
63. At the same time, we will ensure, as Mr Louis Ng said just now 
very eloquently, we must make sure that we take care of these workers. 
So, we will ensure that we have the necessary infrastructure to 
accommodate these workers well, including building more dormitories, 
dormitories with the revised standards we have put in place based on 
our Covid experience, as well as Recreation Centres for their well-being. 
This is what we owe to the workers who help to build our country. 
 
64. At the middle-income levels, we have Singaporeans doing the 
jobs, but there are not enough of us, and that is why we need to top up 
with S Pass holders. They include people doing important jobs like 
nurses and technicians.  
 

 
Page 20 of 56 
 
65. So far, S Pass numbers have been stable. We will continue to make 
sure that S Pass holders have the right skillsets and are in areas where 
we need them the most.  
 
66. At the higher end of the income spectrum, we have Employment 
Pass or EP holders. These are professionals with the abilities and skills 
to contribute at the upper end of the workforce. This is especially so for 
new growth areas like AI and the digital economy, where there is 
currently a shortage of skilled talent, not just in Singapore but also 
globally. 
 
67. We apply salary cut-offs to ensure that the EP holders we bring in 
are of the right calibre. In particular, we have stated previously that we 
aim for EP holders to be comparable in quality to the top one-third of 
our local PMET workforce. To keep pace with changes in wages, we will 
raise the minimum qualifying salary for EP applicants. The Minister for 
Manpower will share more details of the changes at its Committee of 
Supply.  
 
68. This is not a new policy setting, because the policy intent to 
ensure that the salary cut-offs are comparable in quality to the top one-
third of our local PMET workforce has been earlier stated. That remains 

 
Page 21 of 56 
 
the policy intent but because local wages have gone up, we will have to 
adjust accordingly and the changes will be announced by the Minister 
for Manpower at its COS. 
 
69. So, when you look at all of these different factors over the coming 
decade, we expect the workforce to grow at about 1% per annum, in 
line with the needs of the economy. This combined with productivity 
growth of about 1~2% is how we can achieve 2~3% growth for the 
overall economy.   
 
70. Why are we doing all this? It is not to chase after a target. It is not 
to grow for the sake of growth.  It is to secure better outcomes for 
Singapore and Singaporeans. That is why in tandem, we are making 
several other major moves. 
 
71. We are introducing new Workplace Fairness Legislation – this 
reflects the Government’s commitment to push against discrimination 
in the workplace, and ensure fair employment opportunities for all 
workers.  
 
72. We are investing more heavily in Singaporeans, something which 
many Members spoke passionately about.  This is how we give our 

 
Page 22 of 56 
 
people the extra advantage to compete and excel in the global 
marketplace.   
 
73. In particular, in this Budget, we are making significant 
enhancements to SkillsFuture and introducing new schemes to help our 
workers realise their full potential, regardless of their start points or 
stage of career.  
 
74. We have focused on the segments that face more challenges. For 
young ITE graduates, we introduced the ITE Progression Award, to 
encourage and support their upskilling journey. Mr Xie Yao Quan and 
Ms Cheryl Chan spoke about this. With this Award, they will be better 
supported and they will have many opportunities to get an MOE-funded 
diploma – not just in the Polytechnics, but also at other institutions like 
ITE, where they offer Work-Study programmes as well as the technical 
diplomas. We want our ITE students to do well, deepen their skills, and 
go further, get on a better career and wage trajectory in life. This 
Progression Award will encourage and support them in this journey. 
 
75. For mid-career workers, the new SkillsFuture Level-Up Programme 
will support them with a substantial injection of skills to improve their 

 
Page 23 of 56 
 
employability. Many Members, including Leader of the Opposition Mr 
Pritam Singh, Associate Professor Jamus Lim, Mr Christopher de Souza, 
Mr Gerald Giam, Mr  esmond Choo and  r Syed Harun all spoke about 
this. There were many suggestions, such as to expand the scope of the 
SkillsFuture Credit, to reduce the qualifying age, or to provide additional 
incentives and support. I appreciate the strong support and interest.  
  
76. The Level-Up programme is a significant new addition to our 
SkillsFuture system. Let’s make this move first. We have not even talked 
about the details yet, which will be announced by the Minister for 
Education at its Committee of Supply. So, we will make this first move, 
and we will consider all your feedback and suggestions, and consider 
how to further fine-tune and enhance the scheme, as we gain more 
experience over time.  
 
77. There is another segment we are paying close attention to  
Singaporeans with the potential to take on leadership positions in 
MNEs. Over time, more Singaporeans have taken on such regional and 
global leadership roles, and we want to nurture and grow this pipeline 
of Singaporean leaders.    
 

 
Page 24 of 56 
 
78. Naturally, there is intense competition for these highly sought-
after jobs. The MNEs will and should rightfully select and appoint their 
leaders by merit. But when companies consider people for such roles, 
they will typically look for those who have already spent substantial 
time managing an overseas operation. Because remember, they are 
looking for regional and global leaders. So, you must have spent time 
overseas, running and managing regional or global operations.  
 
79. This means that Singaporeans, who would like to be considered 
for these positions, must be prepared to be posted overseas, not just in 
their early 20s when many young people like to be posted overseas, but 
also in their 30s or 40s, where they are taking on managerial 
responsibilities, and also when they may have settled down and have 
families here. 
 
80. Understandably, at that season in life, relocating overseas will not 
be easy. There are many considerations.  The spouse may have to stop 
work for some time. The children will have to adjust to an international 
school, and then come back to re-adjust to the Singapore system.  
 
81. So, we are reviewing this, and considering how we can provide 
more support for Singaporeans under these circumstances so that we 

 
Page 25 of 56 
 
can help support them when they go overseas, when they come back, 
and put them in a better position to be considered for leadership 
appointments in their respective companies.  
  
82. Over time, I am confident we can develop and nurture more 
Singaporean experts and leaders across all fields. We have been doing 
this systematically in Finance for some time already, and we can see the 
results – we now have around 4,000 Singaporeans holding senior roles 
in the financial sector, up from fewer than 2,000 in 2016.   
 
83. We now have a network of Singaporean finance leaders, who 
come together regularly, they meet up and they support one another in 
their leadership journeys.  We will redouble our efforts in Finance, and 
also in other key sectors of the economy.  
 
84. These are our plans to secure better growth and better 
opportunities for all Singaporeans. This is also how we take concrete 
steps towards helping everyone realise their Singapore  ream.   
 
85. This idea of a refreshed Singapore  ream was expressed by the 
vast majority of Singaporeans, especially our youths, during our 
Forward Singapore engagements.   

 
Page 26 of 56 
 
 
86. To be clear, it does not mean that Singaporeans have given up on 
material goals. But they want to avoid getting trapped in an endless rat 
race of hyper-competition. They want to find meaning and fulfilment in 
what they do, beyond material success.   
 
87. I think these are noble aspirations. There are undoubtedly some 
generational shifts – because these aspirations are perhaps more 
commonly expressed among those born after Independence than 
before.   
 
88. My colleagues and I in the 4G leadership, almost all of us were 
born after Independence too. So perhaps we instinctively empathise 
with these aspirations, and as part of Forward Singapore, and in this 
Budget, we are doing more to help our fellow Singaporeans realise 
these shared aspirations – by providing more opportunities and diverse 
pathways for everyone to excel, to develop to their fullest potential, and 
to be the best possible version of themselves.   
  

 
Page 27 of 56 
 
D. Is our syste  o  social support sufficient to assure Singaporeans? 
 
89. Singapore must be defined not just by how far our talents can go, 
but also by how well we support one another.   We recognise that in 
this new environment, there will be more stresses and strains on our 
people. With more rapid technological advances and more intense 
competition, we can expect more churn at workplaces.  Some jobs will 
become obsolete, while new jobs with better pay will be created. All 
this will be very unsettling for those who are affected.    
 
90. This brings me to the third issue we have to address  is our system 
of social support sufficient to assure Singaporeans through every life 
stage? Again, many Members spoke about this – Mr  ennis Tan, Ms Ng 
Ling Ling, and  r Wan Rizal, just to name a few. 
 
91. In fact, we have been working hard over the years to progressively 
enhance our social safety nets. 
 
a. We started in a more deliberate manner around the Asian 
Financial Crisis in 1997 when we first saw income trends 
diverging.  
 

 
Page 28 of 56 
 
b. We have continued to fine-tune and improve over the years.  
 
c. In this Budget, we are taking further steps to strengthen our 
system of risk pooling and social support.  
 
92. The traditional pillars in any social support system are education, 
housing, healthcare, work, and retirement. You find this in all countries.  
 
93. In education, we have invested heavily in a first-class school 
system.  We have also significantly increased our investments in 
preschool education, and expanded tertiary education options for our 
youths, including increases to the university cohort participation rate. 
 
94. In housing, we have public housing and H B. We celebrate 60 
years of the Home Ownership Scheme this year.  It is a significant 
milestone, because there is no other institution like H B in the world, 
which has provided comprehensively for the housing needs of its 
people.  Indeed, it may be misleading to call it “public housing”, 
because when you look around the world, public housing often develop 
into slums, even ghettos.  Our public housing is a National Housing 
scheme. 
 

 
Page 29 of 56 
 
95. And our housing policies are not static – we continue to review 
and update them.  We remain fully committed to keeping our national 
housing affordable and accessible for Singaporeans, including those 
from lower-income households.   
 
96. In healthcare, we have Government subsidies and the 3Ms – 
MediSave, MediShield, and MediFund.  We have continued to improve 
on this.  We made MediShield universal and lifelong through 
MediShield Life. We have CareShield Life for long-term care.  Recently, 
we have launched Healthier SG and Age Well SG.   
 
97. In work, we have strived to create good jobs for all Singaporeans, 
not only to provide a good living, but also because work gives dignity 
and purpose in life. To uplift our lower-wage workers, we have added 
Workfare and Progressive Wages, as noted by Mr Raj Joshua Thomas 
and many others. These moves are delivering results.  
 
98. In retirement, we have CPF, which we have been enhancing over 
the years. We pay additional interest to those with lower balances.  We 
introduced CPF LIFE because Singaporeans are living longer, and we 
want to provide them with a retirement payout for life. We provide 
Silver Support for seniors who had low incomes during their working 

 
Page 30 of 56 
 
years.  And now we have the Majulah Package to help seniors 
accumulate more retirement savings, especially our young seniors.     
 
99. We will not stop here. We are continuously studying how we can 
do better.  But let us also understand this  for those who ask for higher 
CPF returns, you must surely know that higher returns must come with 
higher risks.  To what extent can retirees bear this volatility, especially 
when they may need to withdraw their funds in a period of negative 
investment returns in the markets?  These are some of the complex 
issues that the Government has to weigh and consider carefully. But in 
the end, we will ensure that the CPF system provides for the basic 
retirement needs of all Singaporeans so long as they work and 
contribute to their CPF consistently.   
  
100. Around these five pillars, which I have just described, we have 
ComCare – to ensure that no family and no individual falls through the 
cracks. Through ComCare, we provide financial assistance – short- and 
medium-term, as well as long-term assistance to those in need. But we 
have gone beyond just providing financial support. We lean forward to 
take a more family-centric approach – bringing different agencies and 
community partners together and customising support for lower-

 
Page 31 of 56 
 
income families, especially those with young children, through ComLink 
and now, ComLink+.   
 
101. We have also provided more support for vulnerable groups, such 
as children with special needs, ex-offenders, and persons with 
disabilities, topics many Members spoke passionately about, such as Mr 
Eric Chua, Ms Rachel Ong, and Mr Ong Hua Han.   
 
102. The latest addition to our system is SkillsFuture. It is something we 
started about a decade ago.  We have made good progress, but we still 
need to do more. And that is why we have made significant 
enhancements to SkillsFuture in this Budget.  
 
103. We are also working on the new support scheme for those who 
are involuntarily unemployed, as part of our enhancements to 
SkillsFuture. This will be targeted at involuntarily unemployed workers 
in the lower and middle-income groups. We will provide them with 
temporary financial support, and encourage these individuals to go for 
training if needed, or to get matched to new jobs. In other words, this is 
really more of a jobseeker support scheme, than an unemployment 
benefit.  
 

 
Page 32 of 56 
 
104. We considered whether or not to make this an insurance scheme, 
but for an insurance scheme to work, it will require universal 
enrolment, otherwise the insurers will be cherry-picking. This is what 
economists call ‘adverse selection’; the scheme will not be viable. If we 
make it mandatory, or universal enrolment, this will require 
contributions from employers and employees, and this will add to 
business costs which SMEs and lower-income workers are already 
concerned about.  
 
105. That is why we have decided to fund the scheme using taxes 
instead. In other words, all of us as taxpayers and the Government will 
help you bounce back if you face unemployment setbacks. 
 
106. We thank our tripartite partners, including the many Labour MPs 
here such as Mr Patrick Tay, who have given us suggestions and ideas 
for the scheme. We are working out the parameters and we will share 
more details later this year. 
 
107. Sir, what I have just described are all structural moves. They are 
not just temporary or short-term measures. We have strengthened 
them year after year, and we continue to do so. 

 
Page 33 of 56 
 
 
108. And that is why over the last twenty years, social spending by the 
Government has quadrupled. As a share of the Budget, we are spending 
more on social support. In this Budget, half of total ministry 
expenditure is committed to social spending, which is a lot.  A 
substantial portion of this is spent on structural schemes, not 
temporary measures.  
 
109. Some Members would like the Government to do even more. But 
other Members have reminded us that the Government should proceed 
carefully, so as not to breed a sense of entitlement, dependency, or 
undermine individual responsibility and self-reliance.   
 
110. Indeed, we are very careful about getting this balance right. We 
have not changed our ethos of social support – it is not just about giving 
handouts, but it is about giving people a leg up. ComLink+ and the 
SkillsFuture Level-Up Programme have been designed so as not to 
erode personal and family responsibility. Likewise, the upcoming 
scheme providing temporary financial support for those who are 
involuntarily unemployed will also abide by these principles.  
 

 
Page 34 of 56 
 
111. We catch Singaporeans when they fall, and we make sure they do 
not fall behind. We invest in them and we provide them the support to 
bounce back from life’s setbacks, and do even better for themselves. 
 
112. In the end, this is about ensuring that families and individuals 
enjoy better incomes and better living standards.  
 
113. So, if you look at the past decade, the lower-income groups in 
Singapore have in fact progressed faster than the rest. Real incomes of 
the bottom 20% increased slightly faster than the middle income, and 
twice as fast as the top 20%. This is based on incomes alone. It has not 
taken into consideration our progressive system of taxes and benefits 
which favours the lower-income. So, if you add all of that together, the 
overall picture is in fact better for the lower-income.  
 

 
Page 35 of 56 
 
 
 
114. But we will not stop here. We will work hard to continue 
improving.  We learn from other countries, and we are open to all ideas 
– from MPs, researchers, and community advocates. That is the spirit of 
Forward Singapore.  We will consult widely, and make bold and effective 
changes to take Singapore forward. 
 
115.  uring this  ebate, many Members – Opposition MPs, PAP MPs, 
Labour MPs – all of you have laid claim to the policy shifts announced in 
the Budget.  
 


 
Page 36 of 56 
 
116. Well, I am glad every one of you wants to be associated with the 
Budget. As the saying goes, failure is an orphan, but success has many 
fathers, and mothers too I should add. Basically, we welcome all who 
wish to associate themselves with these forward-thinking initiatives.  
 
117. Because in truth, no one has a monopoly on ideas. There are 
many stakeholders also outside this House who have claimed credit, 
and in fact, have shared with us many ideas too. The Government has 
and will continue to provide more information to facilitate informed 
discussions of policies – something which several Members spoke 
about. We are committed to doing so.  
 
118. For instance, MOF publishes the Singapore Public Sector 
Outcomes Report every two years. This covers a broad range of 
outcome indicators - not just input, but outcome indicators. We intend 
to improve the report, so let us have your suggestions on additional 
indicators to include.    
 
119. And looking ahead, there will be even more opportunities for 
ground-up and civic engagements – something which Ms He Ting Ru, 
Mr Tan Wu Meng, and Ms  enise Phua spoke about.  We will provide 
more platforms for individuals and groups to contribute meaningfully – 

 
Page 37 of 56 
 
not just through feedback sessions, but also youth panels, citizens’ 
panels where participants can play an active role to co-create and 
update policies. 
 
120. In the end, the real work is about translating ideas into effective 
policies that work for Singapore. That is our test – is it effective? 
 
121. We all want better wages, better assurance, better security for our 
people. But what is the effective way to achieve these goals? How do 
you pay for them? How do you guard against inadvertent 
consequences? Many things start with good intentions but they do not 
all achieve what is intended.  These are the careful deliberations that 
have to be made. 
 
122. If we look at the many policies that the Government has 
introduced over the years, it is clear that we are different from what 
other countries do. That is because we do not just blindly copy.  We 
learn from others. We are not ashamed to say that we do so. We adapt 
to our own needs. We discuss with key stakeholders to get buy-in, 
especially our tripartite parties, and then we get something that applies 
to our context.   
 

 
Page 38 of 56 
 
 
123. That is how we have innovated massively on the social front as we 
have on the economic and financial fronts.  
 
124. We have Workfare rather than of welfare. We have Progressive 
Wages instead of minimum wage. SkillsFuture, instead of preserving 
obsolete jobs. And soon, support for jobseekers instead of 
unemployment insurance. 
 
125. This is not just about changing the words. These reflect our policy 
emphases and priorities. This is how we go about effecting change for 
the betterment of Singapore and Singaporeans. 
 
126. We recognise that we may not always get it right. But we will 
always improve and keep on doing better. We will continue to evolve 
and improve our system of social support. We maintain the right 
incentives, actively enable self-reliance, and make sure we are able to 
fund these schemes.  
 
127. That is how we can sustain a social trampoline that promotes 
rather than dulls economic progress, that ensures that the fruit of 

 
Page 39 of 56 
 
progress is shared by all. That is how a strong economy and a strong 
society coexist and reinforce each other. 
 
  

 
Page 40 of 56 
 
E. Singapore’s Fiscal Syste : Fair, Prudent, Sustainable 
 
128. Sir, our approach to investing in our people and building our social 
support system has yielded very good outcomes. Even while we spend 
only a fraction of what other governments spend. 
 
129. Take education, for example. We provide quality education that 
produces results.  We have one of the highest mean scores in Reading, 
Mathematics and Science in the Programme for International Student 
Assessment  PISA , as Members are aware.  And the results give us 
confidence that our students are future-ready – PISA does not test rote 
learning, it tests students’ ability to apply what they have learnt to 
unfamiliar settings and real-world contexts, and our students do well in 
these tests. We have achieved all this while keeping education 
expenditure at about 2% of G P, which is less than half the OEC  
average of about 5% of G P.1 
 
130. Our long-term and prudent approach has enabled us to keep 
Government expenditure at less than one-fifth of G P. This has in turn 
 
1 Source  Education at a Glance 2023, OEC  Indicators, Table C2.1 – Total expenditure on educational institutions as 
a percentage of G P  2020 . 

 
Page 41 of 56 
 
allowed us to keep our tax burden low. In fact, 40% of all workers do not 
pay personal income tax. The effective tax burden for middle-income 
households at around 10% of household income is significantly lower 
than other advanced economies. UK and Finland, for instance, have 
middle-income tax burdens that exceed 30%. 
 
131. Our fiscal system is also fair and progressive, where those with 
greater needs receive more help than what they pay in taxes. The 
lowest 20% of households receive about four dollars for every dollar of 
tax paid. The middle 20% of households receive about two dollars for 
every dollar of taxes. And the top 20% of households receives about 30 
cents for every dollar they pay in taxes. 
 
132. Members are familiar with these statistics. We have shared them 
before. They have not changed. How does this compare with other 
countries? 
 
133. While there are inherent limitations in comparing across 
countries, we have done some computations. Singapore in fact does 
better than advanced economies like the UK and Finland, especially for 
lower and middle-income households. The statistics that I mentioned 

 
Page 42 of 56 
 
just now also do not include other intangible benefits such as access to 
world-class education that I mentioned earlier, or having safe streets in 
Singapore. This is how we provide and take care of our people.  
 
  
 
134. Of course a progressive system must mean that the better-off 
contribute more.  This includes paying more in Property Tax for those 
with higher-value homes. With the Annual Value  or AV  band changes, 
the higher owner-occupied Property Tax rates will apply to those living 
in homes with AVs above S$40,000, or the top 7% of properties in 
Singapore. Of course within this group, there is also a range. Those who 
pay a lot more in Property Taxes generally have homes with much 


 
Page 43 of 56 
 
higher value – we are talking about higher-end condominiums, semi-
detached houses, bungalows, and Good Class Bungalows. That is what 
the Property Tax is designed to do – it is a wealth tax for those with 
more assets.  
 
135. But we do recognise that there are some groups, especially 
seniors and retirees, who may need some support to cushion the 
impact of the Property Tax increase, and this was highlighted by several 
Members including Ms Joan Pereira, Mr Lim Biow Chuan, and Mr Yip 
Hon Weng.  Beyond the 24-month interest-free instalment plan, which I 
have announced in the Budget, those who face difficulties in paying, 
especially retirees and seniors, can approach IRAS for assistance. 
 
136. Next, let me deal with some specific questions on tax changes.  
 
137. Ms Usha Chandradas asked about the withdrawal of the tax 
concession on royalty income accorded to authors, composers and 
choreographers.  This concession was introduced in 1983 as she 
highlighted, at a time when Personal Income Tax rates were much 
higher. Since then, tax rates have come down. The concession now 
currently benefits only a very small group of taxpayers. We have 

 
Page 44 of 56 
 
decided to withdraw the concession to ensure parity in the treatment 
of royalty income with other sectors.  At the same time, we are putting 
in much more resources to provide additional broad-based support for 
the arts sector. So, we are not withdrawing resources from the arts 
sector, we are putting in more resources for the arts sector. 
 
138. There were other tax-related suggestions from Ms Usha and other 
MPs, including Mr  on Wee, Mr Edward Chia, and Ms  enise Phua.  I 
thank Members for the suggestions. We will continue to review them, 
taking into consideration their relevance for our tax regime, costs and 
benefits, and of course, consistency with international standards. 
 
139. Some Members, Mr Liang Eng Hwa, Mr Louis Chua, and Mr Pritam 
Singh have sought clarifications on the potential revenue impact from 
the BEPS Pillar Two moves.   
 
140. The OEC ’s estimates imply that investment hubs could see a 
Corporate Income Tax revenue gain ranging from about 17% to 38% – 
this translates to a revenue gain of about S$5 to S$11 billion per year 
for Singapore. This is based on OEC ’s estimates. But these estimates 
have not taken into account how MNEs may respond, and the 

 
Page 45 of 56 
 
possibility of their activities moving out of Singapore, thereby reducing 
our tax base. Possibly for this reason, Hong Kong and Switzerland, which 
are also investment hubs, have estimated their revenue gains at S$1.7 
billion to S$2.4 billion respectively, much lower than what the OEC  has 
put out. These data points are suggestive of what the range for 
Singapore could be - anywhere from around S$2 billion to S$11 billion.  
 
141. But we are really not sure where we will end up, because there 
are so many unknowns.  I think no one is sure, to be clear. The OEC  
has also made very clear these are estimates. No one can be sure what 
the actual impact can be. What we are doing is to engage the MNEs 
better, to understand how they are likely to respond, and we will 
certainly provide our own revenue estimates in due course.  In any case, 
any revenue impact from the Pillar Two moves will only materialise 
from FY2027.  
 
142. So, this is not something for this financial year. We are doing the 
assessments, we are doing the detailed projections, and we will come 
back with the detailed revenue estimates. The actual amount of 
revenue gain and how long it will last depend on how the competitive 

 
Page 46 of 56 
 
landscape evolves, and also how much we have to re-invest into the 
economy. 
 
143. Several Members said that the whole point of BEPS is to tilt the 
playing field in favour of governments and make MNEs pay more taxes. I 
think Mr Louis Chua and Associate Professor Jamus Lim highlighted 
that. I agree.  That is the intent of BEPS. But there is theory and there is 
reality.  What is the reality? The reality is that MNEs have bargaining 
power, and governments around the world are all finding ways to favour 
them and getting them to invest.  
 
144. You can read this for yourself. They are not doing this quietly. They 
are doing this publicly. It is in the media. 
 
145. Just a few days ago, Japan said that it would give leading 
chipmaker Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company  or TSMC  
up to S$6.5 billion more in subsidies for a second plant, and that will 
bring the total subsidies to TSMC to over S$9 billion.  Earlier this month, 
the US also announced a S$2 billion grant to GlobalFoundries, the 
largest grant from the CHIPS Act to date.  These are very generous 
subsidies that the major economies are giving to MNEs. We are not in 

 
Page 47 of 56 
 
the same league, but we have to play a smart game so as not to lose 
ground and to anchor important investments here.   
 
146. This is why we introduced the Refundable Investment Credit in the 
Budget to update our investment promotion toolkit, and committed to 
spending more to support new investment, research and innovation 
activities.  
 
147. These moves are absolutely necessary – so that we remain in the 
race for quality investments, and create good jobs for Singaporeans.   
This is not an academic exercise.  This is about the lives and livelihoods 
of Singaporeans.  We will do whatever is necessary to safeguard this, 
especially in a world where competition will only get tougher.  So let us 
not be so naïve to think that the putative gains from BEPS will simply 
materialise in our favour. 
 
148. This is why, as I said in my Budget statement, after taking into 
account these additional expenditures that we are likely to incur, I do 
not expect the Pillar Two move to generate significant additional net 
revenues on a sustained basis. 
 

 
Page 48 of 56 
 
149. I should also add that the above estimates do not take into 
account the impact of Pillar One, because all that we have been talking 
about is Pillar Two. But Pillar One has been delayed, and if it is 
implemented, it will clearly be revenue-negative for Singapore.     
 
150. After taking into account all this, what is our fiscal position?  
 
151. Last year, MOF published an Occasional Paper on our medium-
term fiscal outlook, up to FY2030.  We showed that our spending needs 
would grow as a percentage of the G P, to support our ageing 
population and expand and strengthen our social safety nets, and there 
would be a funding gap of more than 1% of G P if we did nothing.  But 
with the tax measures announced in the last two Budgets, including the 
GST rate increase, we project that we could close the funding gap, 
provided we manage the pace of spending growth. All that was in the 
Occasional Paper, and that is indeed what we have done.   
 
152. Tax changes have come into effect, although we have not yet 
experienced the full revenue impact, because we have given some 
rebates.  We also enjoyed some revenue upsides. Some are due to 
sentiment-driven revenues like Stamp  uty and Vehicle Quota 

 
Page 49 of 56 
 
Premiums, and stronger than expected Corporate Income Tax Revenues 
last year from a strong rebound amongst some companies post-Covid.   
 
153. So, overall, we are currently in a sound fiscal position.  And we are 
putting our resources to good use – to address immediate concerns and 
also upcoming needs. 
 
154.  This is no different from how one would manage one’s own 
personal finances. Imagine if you are a home-owner planning for a 
major renovation in five years’ time. What do you do? You start setting 
aside resources for this now, for the major expenditure in future.  You 
do not wait until renovation starts before you look for the money, and 
hope that it is there somehow. 
 
155. In the same way, we have set up Funds to meet real 
commitments, and real spending needs. Some of it are for recurring 
commitments, such as the permanent GST Voucher scheme, which we 
draw on year after year; for new commitments like the Majulah 
Package; and for major spending needs that are coming up, like the 
Future Energy Fund, which will help to decarbonise our energy system.   
 

 
Page 50 of 56 
 
156. Some other countries operate differently. There are countries that 
make major commitments without assurance of funding.  In the US they 
call these “unfunded mandates” – pass laws for all sorts of provisions, 
but find the money later. Let’s not worry about money now. That is not 
how we do things in Singapore.  If this Government makes a 
commitment, we make sure it is properly funded.  We make sure we 
deliver on our promises.   
 
157. But let us also be clear. The days of structural fiscal surpluses in 
Singapore are over.  If you look at our economic and fiscal situation, 
growth will come down. We hope to achieve 2-3%. Operating revenues 
will barely keep up with G P growth.  Net Investment Returns 
Contribution  or NIRC  will also broadly maintain as a share of G P over 
the medium term.   
 
158. Expected long-term returns are about 4%. This is updated every 
year. We go through a rigorous process to do so, with the Council of 
Presidential Advisers  CPA  and the President. But we do not expect this 
to increase, given the more challenging investment environment.  The 
expected returns are applied on the reserves or the net asset base, and 
we take half of that to generate the NIRC.  If we really had so much 

 
Page 51 of 56 
 
surpluses, somehow streaming into the reserves, then the net asset 
base must be growing, and the NIRC would be rising significantly as a 
share of G P – but it has not, and we do not expect it to do so in the 
coming years as well. So operating revenues and NIRC maintaining as a 
share of G P only means that we must manage our expenditures well. 
Only then can we continue running balanced budgets till the end of this 
decade. 
 
159. This is also why we do not look at the Budget simply as a one-year 
plan, but also a multi-year commitment. It is in this spirit that we have 
provided a preliminary high-level estimate of S$40 billion to resource 
the upcoming Forward Singapore policy moves.  
 
160. The Forward Singapore report has already outlined the broad 
range of policy areas we are reviewing and studying.  Some have been 
announced, details have been given out in this Budget, others will be 
fleshed out in due course, as will the detailed fiscal requirements of 
these subsequent moves.  We will also update our medium-term 
expenditure and revenue projections. The Occasional Paper that we had 
published last year may not be so occasional after all. We will keep 
updating it, so that everyone will have a sense of how our fiscal trends 

 
Page 52 of 56 
 
are unfolding, not just on a year-to-year basis, but over a five- to ten-
year horizon.   
 
161. We must continue to plan ahead, do our sums carefully, and be 
upfront with Singaporeans on the costs of various proposals.  This 
approach of looking and planning ahead is a hallmark of our fiscal 
policy.  It ensures that we are able to meet our collective aspirations 
and seize every opportunity that comes our way. 
 
162. Perhaps the Opposition takes a different view of fiscal 
management.  Certainly, they want the Government to use more of the 
reserves for current spending.  They suggest different ways of doing so 
– using revenue from land sales, waiving land cost for H B flats, 
increasing the percentage of Net Investment Returns  NIR  that can be 
spent and so on – but in the end, they all come down to the same thing, 
which is to use more of the reserves today.   
 
163. What will this mean?  Basically, we will end up with less for 
ourselves in the future, and we will also leave less behind for our 
children and the next generation.  Eventually, the NIRC will shrink as a 

 
Page 53 of 56 
 
percentage of G P.  The funding gap will increase. And our children will 
pay more in taxes.   
 
164. In fact, this is what many governments in advanced economies are 
faced with.  Their deficits are rising, their debts are rising, and their 
fiscal systems are at risk of breaking.  Many of them have some version 
of an independent budget office. It has not helped at all.  Basically, no 
political party in these countries are prepared to dish out the hard 
truths. So, their policy debates are dominated by what some 
commentators call “fiscal fantasies”. What are some of these fantasies? 
They include far-too-optimistic forecasting assumptions; the idea that 
all the funds can be raised from the rich with close to zero 
consequences for the rest of the population; or that they can kick the 
fiscal can down the road indefinitely – just continue to spend, and leave 
it to their children or to those not yet born to solve the problems.   
 
165. Let’s not indulge in fantasy thinking.  Not in this House, not in 
Singapore. Having the resources to pursue a strong economy and a 
strong society, and achieve good outcomes, is not a fairy tale. This is 
very much our Singapore reality, but it requires us to focus on 
prudence, fairness and sustainability.   

 
Page 54 of 56 
 
 
166. What we have is a unique and certainly, a privileged position of 
strength.  Many economies pay about 2% of their G P in debt servicing 
for debts that had been accumulated. We are different.  We enjoy the 
benefits from savings from the past.  To continue on a sustainable path, 
we must maintain our commitment to set aside enough not just for 
ourselves but also for the future. 
 
167. I call on everyone in this House – let’s commit to upholding these 
values – fiscal responsibility, discipline. Ensure that our fiscal system 
meets the needs and aspirations of both current and future generations 
of Singaporeans. 
 
168. If the Opposition parties have a different view on this, I invite 
them to take up the challenge the Prime Minister issued in this House a 
few weeks ago  Make drawing more from the reserves an election issue. 
Go to the people, ask them for a mandate to change the Constitution, 
compel the President to let you spend 60%, 75% or even 100% of the 
NIR.  The PAP will join issue with you – we will present our case to 
Singaporeans, and ultimately Singaporeans can decide what is the best 
fiscal approach to take Singapore forward.   

 
Page 55 of 56 
 
F. Conclusion   
 
169. Mr Speaker Sir, Singapore is at a critical moment of change. We 
are entering a different world – one that is messier, more dangerous, 
and more unpredictable. There will be more forces that threaten to pull 
us apart.  
 
170. This year’s Budget is the first step in advancing our Forward 
Singapore agenda. We want to refresh our social compact to keep our 
society strong and united in this troubled world. We want to build a 
better Singapore – not just for a few, but for all Singaporeans. We want 
to refresh the Singapore  ream, and build a Singapore that is vibrant 
and inclusive, fair and thriving, resilient and united. 
 
171. The road ahead to this better Singapore will not be easy.  But we 
are all in this together, and we all have a part to play. The Government 
will do more to provide opportunities and assurances at every stage of 
life, and everyone in society should contribute towards our shared goals 
and aspirations in our own ways. 
 

 
Page 56 of 56 
 
172. I take heart from the nation-building journey we have had so far. 
As one united people, we have consistently turned our challenges into 
opportunities, and our constraints into strengths. We have done it 
before, and I am confident we will do it again.  
 
173. Sir, let us build our shared future together. 
  
 
 
 